|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Andy Osborn](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14311)

### [Ricardo Patton](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13705)

### [Richard Roby](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13912)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome the Buffaloes from the University of Colorado.
And Coach Patton, if you will, introduce your players and make an opening
comment or two, please.

_

COACH RICARDO PATTON: To my left we have Richard Roby, sophomore, from San
Bernardino, California, our leading scorer a year ago and as a freshman. To
Richard's left Andy Osborn from Longmont, Colorado. Andy transferred back home
from Loyola Marymount and is a fifth year senior. Excited to be here. Excited
to start another Big 12 season. I think that our guys are really focused to
get started. We have had a nice trip pre-season to Vancouver where our guys, I
thought, played extremely well and played a lot better than I had anticipated.



Q. What was the biggest thing you learned from going to Vancouver?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: Well, because we're dealing with so many guys this year,
we have 19 guys on the roster and I think 6 those guys are walk ons. But
bringing in a new pointguard named Dominique Coleman, gave us the opportunity
to see him play and get some early reps under his belt running with the team.
So that was the biggest thing. It allowed us to start practicing 10 days prior
to the trip. And so that was the biggest advantage, was the 10 days of
practice, early practice and getting to work our pointguard in.



Q. Expand on your new pointguard if you would, is this the guy that you have
been looking for?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: I think so. If you look back over the past few years at
our team, we have always had most of the pieces and were probably missing one
or two pieces. When we had David Harrison, 7-footer, who is now with the
Pacers, we really didn't have a pointguard that could give us what we needed
at that position. Now we have the pointguard, we don't have David Harrison.
But Dominique is a guy, I think, that fills that void, he's a guy that can
score. He led the nation in scoring last year at Hillsborough Community
College in Tampa, Florida. He's a guy that can pass the basketball, enjoys
passing the basketball, which is a unique thing nowadays. I guess I have to
say too that with any players it's similar to a marriage, you don't really
know what you have until you live with them a while. And so but I think early
on he's shown some signs of becoming a really good basketball player for us.



Q. Can you talk about what your expectations are for both Richard and Andy
this year?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: Well, of course Andy being a senior, one of the things
we have talked about with our entire group is our seniors wanting to set a
standard for years to come and of course, by that we mean that they need to
have senior leadership and set the tone every day in practice for particularly
our young guys. Richard Roby has been a leader, both off the floor and on the
floor. He leads more by example than sometimes verbally, but every day he
comes and works extremely hard. So for these two young men I hope that they
will not allow for any distractions to take away from what we're trying to do
on the floor, or allow for any off the floor distractions to interfere with
what we're trying to do on the floor. Any time you have a team that will
monitor itself, then you have a chance to have a very good basketball team.



Q. I know you thought Richard would be a good player. Anything that he did
last year that exceeded your expectations or surprised you?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: Not really. When we go out as coaches in the July
recruiting period and those kids that we're evaluating have been playing for a
month or more, one of the things that you tend to see with players toward the
latter part of July is the fatigue factor starting to show up and guys not
playing as well late July as they did, say, in their early period. In
evaluating Richard that summer, he seemed to have continued to get better and
better as the period wore down. I thought he could come in and really have a
nice year for us, which he did. The other piece of that is you are talking
about a young man that wants to get better. I have been asked the question how
does he compare with a guy like Chauncey Billups. Well, certainly his game is
not at that level quite yet, but his mentality is. Chauncey was very focused,
very determined to get to the next level. Very determined to improve every
year, and I think Richard Roby possess that same quality.



Q. I know they play different positions, but do you see any similarities
between Richard and his half brother, Kenyon Martin?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: Richard is probably more athletic than most people give
him credit for. I have seen him do some very athletic, make some very athletic
plays, but that's not something that he hangs his hat on. Most of the time
that when you see those guys that jump extremely high, they don't shoot the
ball very well and I think it's because they spend most of their time working
in their backyard on the dunk contest as opposed to working on a skill,
shooting the basketball. But Richard seems to have worked on just about every
phase of his game now. Certainly his defense has to improve, but he's working
at it. As a coach that's all you can ask of the guys, just to continue to work
on his weaknesses, and certainly he's doing that.



Q. Talk more about the Vancouver trip? Have you taken the team on preseason
trips before?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: This is the first time that we have taken a team, in my
tenure at Colorado, on a pre-season trip. We have typically gone on holiday
trips whether it be a Thanksgiving tournament, or Christmas tournament, but
it's the first time for a pre-season trip and again in wanting to do that, I
just wanted to get started as quickly as we possibly could with practicing.
And of course the N.C.A.A. has changed their rule a little bit and allowed us
to work two hours a week with our entire group this year. But by taking the
trip to Vancouver, it allowed us 10 solid days of practicing which I wanted to
do. Of course we're doing some new things with our players and that's one of
the benefits of having a veteran team. They seem to catch on just a little bit
quicker than if you had a lot of young guys.



Q. How many games did you play?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: We played three games. Three games over a five-day
period and were able to win all of those games. First team we played B.C., is
a team that had beaten actually Kansas State who went on the trip a year ago
and Georgia, so we felt very good about that. Again our guys played extremely
well.



Q. You know what it takes to contend in this league now. Is this team -- does
this team have the ingredients now to be one of those contenders, and if so,
what do you see as the key ingredients?



RICHARD ROBY: The key ingredient we have is a lot more experience than we had
last year, a lot of new guys coming in and the guys that were here before
didn't play a huge role the year before. And I think we have a lot more
confidence coming in this year. I think that's important when you are playing
in such a tough league, you have to be confident enough that you can feel you
can beat every team that comes into your gym or teams you go play against.



Q. Talk about any benefits you got out of the Vancouver trip?



ANDY OSBORN: Like Coach said, the practice was good but it gave the new guys
to come in, like Calvin Williams and Dominique, a chance to get a feel for the
rest of team like me, Rich and the other experienced guys coming back. Got us
all a chance in practice to play to just feel each other out, get used to the
new drills, you know, feel each other out and have a sense of what it takes to
play at the level that we need to play at to be competitive in the Big 12.



Q. What was the differences that you noticed a lot of them are obvious, but
from your perspective in the Big 12 and the West Coast conference?



ANDY OSBORN: Difference for me is every night you are playing a contender, a
team that's got a really good shot of winning a lot of games. In the WTC, the
conference I played in previously, there was one of two teams, like Gonzaga or
Pepperdine, that was top of the league. Not every night you were playing the
great team. On every night in the Big 12 playing against All-Americans,
playing against really good competition. Can't lose focus, can't slip for one
second in this league.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Chameka Scott](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13905)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: Coach, introduce your players make a couple of comments.

_

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Sophia Young and Shameka Scott. My comment this
morning is "Go Astros." Drake McLainton (phonetic) is a big Baylor guy, so the
better he does the better he will take care of Baylor. That's my opening
comment.

_

MODERATOR: Questions from the floor.

_ 

Q. Did things ever slow down, have they yet slowed down for you?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Yeah. They have slowed down but it's by the
process of we're starting practice. But it was a great summer, it was a great
off-season and we got to experience a lot of things that you don't experience
when you don't win championships. When you win a national championship, a lot
of good things come your way. It was a very good summer.



Q. Other than get your picture on the cover of the phone book, can you give
some examples of how it was different this year? I saw billboards all over
town when I came down for baseball and just lots of different things like
that.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, as you can imagine it's not every day you
get to meet the president, so those kind of things come with winning a
Championship. I think we met every politician in Texas and Washington and lots
of memories, the parade in Waco was awesome. The welcome back to the Ferrell
Center after the game was awesome. I am going to forget all of some of the
things. There's been so many. It doesn't last forever. So while it lasts you
need to enjoy it. I think all of the players will tell you the same, that we
enjoyed every moment and we have got to move on now and prepare for a new
season.



Q. Now that you all have done this and you have been as a player and a
defending champion, so how -- what is going to be different for your players
this year having done it?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I don't look at it as defending a championship. To
me that's sound like somebody is going to take that Championship away from
you, and no one will ever take that away from us. We'll hold that trophy for
ever and ever. The way we're going to approach it is this is a new season and
we would like to do the same thing that we did last year as would every other
coach in America and every other team in America. We're not the same
basketball team that won the national championship. We lost seven players off
of that team. We have a great nucleus of players with three starters
returning. We have a group of freshmen that are eager to learn and that are
working really hard right now to find their place on their basketball team. It
will be a totally different team, and we have got to find our identity and
find our strengths and weaknesses and approach this season as if we're not
defending anything. It is just a new year.



Q. You bring up the freshmen, wondering if you can comment about not only your
team, but the conference in general and how it appears that newcomers into the
league may play a bigger role or be a bigger factor in determining how the
league race plays out?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I am not sure I can tell you about the other
teams. You become so focused on your team. I am aware of some freshmen that
are coming into the league, but speaking for my team, we don't have a lot of
depth this year. We only are going to have eleven players dressed out. So
injuries are going to be very important to stay away from and the freshmen for
us are going to have to contribute. You'd like for the freshmen to learn from
the upperclassmen but they are not going to have that opportunity. With eleven
players, they are going to have to play.



Q. Concerning the talent here in Texas with women's basketball, I have a
question and your thoughts on Miss Wyatt because I really watched her play in
the tournament last year and it seemed like she stepped up when she really had
to. You had your veterans that were there but she really stepped up. Also your
comments on the (inaudible) state of Texas?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Latoya Wyatt, you are talking about?



Q. Yes.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Being from the state of Texas, we're going to
naturally recruit the state of Texas first before we spread our wings. As we
continue to build our program, we hope that we can go further out across the
country to recruit. Latoya Wyatt I thought was very critical in many of our
Playoff games. She has such tremendous speed and quickness. She is very
explosive coming off the dribble and getting to the basket. I thought
definitely in some games throughout the course of the Playoffs we were able to
insert her and she would harass people on the perimeter. Right now she is just
picking up where she left off last year and we need her to.



Q. You think she will pick up with Chelsea with it --



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Chelsea played the point for us. Latoya will be
off guard. Hopefully she will do the things definitely that Chelsea did.
Chelsea was really a catalyst for us definitely. She would harass the ball
handler. Then she will help the post players down inside and come up with a
lot of loose balls and a lot of steals. I would like for Latoya to have that
mentality. But at the same time Latoya is going to have to give us more
offense than we were asking Chelsea to do.



Q. Will you tell us a little bit about this year's team, what you all are
expecting?



CHAMEKA SCOTT: I think this year's team, it's a lot of fun playing with them
because it is a different pace of basketball. Everyone is really quick and I
like that because we get to run the floor a lot. More importantly, it helps us
out on defense. I think we're going to be a very good defensive team. That
will drive our offense, and that to me is a lot more fun than being more of an
offensive-minded team. Line coach said we have got the freshmen who we need to
contribute. So a lot of the pre-season we spent time getting them to mature a
little earlier and get them to realize that we're going to need them this
year, that whole process has been fun. I guess for Sophia and I as seniors
stepping up to be leaders and be able to show them the ropes, get them used to
it. I think we have a really good team that's really eager to play this year.



Q. Did you work on anything specific this summer to try to improve your game?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Yeah, I don't think -- well, I think that there's always room
for improvement and I worked on dribbling a little bit, more outside shooting,
I would say.



Q. Could you talk about -- I am not sure if you know but you were named pre-
season player of the year. We all know your story of how -- how you learned
basketball all that stuff. What does it mean now that people have basically
picked you out being the being the best player in this league?



SOPHIA YOUNG: I would say that's really tremendous honor to be recognized by
so many people. It feels pretty good to know that from start so young. I think
it also encourages other people other young girls that want to play, and don't
think they can make it even if they are 15 they can actually start. So it's
just a real honor, hopefully I will just work harder to get more recognition
and bring more recognition to Baylor.



Q. You had such amazing post tandem with Steffanie last year. I know the year
before will you to play without letter in the post seen so you are used to.
That can you talk about a whole season without her as well as you worked
together how you guys think you can make up for that and Kim, if you can then
talk about that too.



SOPHIA YOUNG: Since I got to Baylor I have always played with Steffanie and
she is just been like my backbone pretty much all three years, and now that
she has left, now that she is gone, it's going to be a challenge. But I think
that Abiola Wabara, she is going to step up a lot for us. We're not very
worried about it.

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Anytime you lose seniors, I always tell the people
you don't realize what you have until it's gone and we lost a valuable class
of seniors. Abiola Wabara will replace her. Abi probably of all the players
since we started, her practice has really impressed me. I think that Abi had a
great Playoff run playing the three, the majority of the minutes last year at
the three. She will now move inside and she and Sophia will work well
together. The biggest thing that you will miss from Steffanie is stability.
You knew what you got from her every night. Even when she may have been having
a bad game you knew what you got from her as far as just having a body in
there and a presence in there. Sophia and Abi will do just fine.



Q. Talk about your newcomers and maybe which ones you expect to make an impact
immediately?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: With the few that we have, with eleven players
dressed out, they will all make an impact. I will just start from the guard,
you have got Jhasmin Player from Bay City, she is a 5-8 perimeter player, we
will play her at the one and two some. Jessica Morrow is a big three player,
she is 6 foot, she is from Humble High School in Houston. Rachel Allison is a
6 foot, 6-1 post player from Jonesboro, Arkansas. And Tricia Abbott is a 6-3
post player from Memorial in Houston. The thing that impresses me the most
about them right now, sometimes we have a tendency to forget that they are
freshmen and we move on and we teach and we move quickly and we leave them
behind. They have been able to grasp things and catch on very quickly.
Obviously their defense is much better than their offense right now because
they are so focused on thinking about not messing up a play that they are not
just relaxing and playing the game and that's to be expected. Definitely,
those two post players, if you had to guard Sophia and Abi and Bernice Mosby,
who is sitting out for us, every day, you better mix it up or you are going to
get hurt down there. They are mixing it up quite well.



Q. We all got a sense when -- how excite the everybody was when you guys came
back and talk to go Kim at the end of the summer she said a lot of that
excitement hadn't abated, she was still getting emails and phone calls from
people. Can the two of you talk about whether it's on campus in the community
what it's been like the last few months being national champions?



CHAMEKA SCOTT: I think the biggest difference is just the amount of pride that
the Waco community has felt for Baylor. A lot of times I felt like Baylor
wasn't just it was either Baylor or Waco and now you go around anywhere in the
community you will see Lady Bear basketball T-shirts, everybody will come up
and recognize you and give their support and let you know they are coming out
to the games. That, I think, has been the biggest change that I have noticed.
On campus it's completely different as well. When you get support from your
peers it means a lot more, I think. Just randomly in class you will have
somebody come up and tell them you are their hero something like. That's a
cool feeling. That's motivating and encouraging. It hasn't died down since the
championships. It's continuous and something that I don't think will ever go
away.

SOPHIA YOUNG: Like Chameka said, it's just been (inaudible) bring Baylor and
Waco together. So many in the community people come to us and talked to us.
They recognize us more and we pretty much are role models to them now. Like
she said, on campus our peers come up to us and congratulate us. And even now,
people still are saying congratulations. I think it was a tremendous
opportunity to just bring a few people together and the community back
involved in Baylor.



Q. Tell us the status of Jordan Davis's health situation and how she is doing
now?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Jordan Davis is healthy. She is good to go. We're
going to play better at the point. She and Angela Tisdale will both handle the
basketball and of course with Jordan's shooting ability, I have to play her at
the off guard as well. But she is healthy. She is good to go and they are
really battling.



Q. One of things you did last year, Kim, you had to push a lot of buttons at
different times, and it could be a different kid, you had your consistent
people like Sophia and Steffanie and Chameka but you had different role
players come forward. I guess with a smaller team this year how do you think
that's going to work out? Are you still going to be in that position of having
to come up with different moves at different times?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, I may not have as many to choose from with
only 11 on the roster. I always look at it this way: when we were at Louisiana
Tech, we made it to a Final 4 one year with 8 players. I think Duke has done
it before. Actually, that makes it easier on the coach, you don't have many
decisions to make. With 11 players I may not have to push those buttons as
much. I may know what my rotation is and we were very fortunate in the
decision that's we made through the course of the year that we pushed the
majority of the buttons correct. But we'll just figure it out and go with the
top eight or nine players and hey I hope it's 11 players. But if you are
playing 11 players in a basketball game, that's tough sometimes.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Whitney Law](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13906)

### [Kathy McConnell-
Miller](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14195)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: Welcome to the podium a new coach that's joined our league. Kathy,
introduce your player and make a couple of opening comments.

_

COACH KATHY McCONNELL-MILLER: First and foremost obviously I have been at the
University of Colorado, I have got to follow in a legend in Seal Barry and
this morning I have got to follow the National Championship in Kim Mulkey-
Robertson. Obviously I have enjoyed the past five months tremendously. I have
got a player to my left, Whitney Law, who has exuded unbelievable leadership
in the past five months. I have entered a program of 12 young women that have
given absolutely everything from the conditioning in the summer to the water
to the playing to assisting with recruiting. And to me, I couldn't imagine
coming into a program and having 12 different women. They have opened up their
arms. They have embraced me and my family. Our staff, I drive to work every
day and I absolutely can't believe that I live in an amazing -- in the most
beautiful place, I believe, in America. To follow what Coach Barry has done
over the past 22, 23 years, the Sweet 16s, the Elite 8s, the Championships,
the Big 8s, the Big 12s, I have followed Colorado basketball and admired it
from afar. Never did I feel like one day I would be following in her footsteps
and carrying on that tradition. It's exciting. It's challenging, and to be
able to coach in a conference with what I consider the strongest conference in
the country and some of the most amazing coaches is definitely a humbling
experience for me. There is a lot of things that I think this team does well.
There's a lot of things that I think this team needs to improve on. To be
picked 12th, obviously, is something that doesn't sit well with them, but all
coaches know it doesn't really matter where you start, it's where you finish.
For us, we work every day to improve on that. Their work ethic is strong,
their team chemistry is great, and again, 12 just amazing young women that
have made my experience that much better. Whitney Law, a native of Colorado,
has come back after transferring from Georgia. I think after watching film
last year and looking at the roster, we decided to move Whitney back to the
pointguard position for many reasons. One, the lack of depth at that spot,
lack of experience at that position, and I think her leadership. I think
Whitney truly understands the game. I think she knows what I am looking for.
Her players respect her on the floor. She understands it. She's the type of
player that's going to come in, get the plays, draw it up, ask me where the
options are, ask me what it's all about, what we're looking for here and who
the go-to players are in this particular scheme. So I have been pleased with
what Whitney has done and I think she is a key to our success this year. I
think Kara Richards is a key to our success. I think her presence in the paint
that will determine how good we are. Jasmina Ilic, a player that I think will
definitely benefit from a little up-style-tempo play because she's not one
that can be controlled in any situation. I think those are three key players
for us. All and all, a team that challenges me and from our perspective and
coaching perspective, challenges us every day to make them better. It's been a
great five months, and I am definitely looking forward to the start of our
conference.



Q. You were in the shadow of the Big 12 at Tulsa. How much were you able to
follow the league and what do you expect?



COACH KATHY McCONNELL-MILLER: I used to bribe the beat writer from the Tulsa
World to make sure that she kept up with Tulsa as well as Oklahoma and
Oklahoma State. We were surrounded by it, and I would say at times overwhelmed
by it. From a football perspective, men's basketball perspective, however,
many, many times I drove to Norman to watch teams practice, Eddie Sutton was
probably one of my favorites to drive over, watch his practice, and just see
how it's done. You would admire it. Never, ever did I feel slighted.
Completely aware of the difference in the conference, completely aware of the
level. I have been -- I played at Virginia in the A.C.C. I have coached in the
Big East. I have coached in the Atlantic 10. Coached in the Big 10, now the
Big 12. When you have been around the country that many times, you know the
differences in the conference. There's a great respect at Tulsa for the Big 12
in the community, in the university, and we've played against Oklahoma and
Oklahoma State year in, year out. So there's definitely an understanding of
the strength in the conference. And a respect.



Q. Along that same vein, what has it been like for you to go into players'
houses with the power of a Big 12 school, you know, behind you and on your bag
and on your stuff and everything?



COACH KATHY McCONNELL-MILLER: I think I feel like the same person, the same
type of recruiter. However, you are received a little bit differently when you
are walking in there with Ralphy the Buffalo on your bag, or Colorado across
your chest. I enjoy the game. I enjoy the recruiting process, probably more
than most. To go into a home, to connect with a parent, connect with a teacher
or a coach, or that family or a little brother, I love to recruit. So I have
the same passion whether I was at Tulsa or whether I was at Colorado. I don't
feel any different because of I am doing something I truly love. However,
there is definitely a difference in how you are received coming in there
representing Colorado and the Big 12.



Q. Wondering if you can expand on Kara Richards and what you see and expect
from her?



COACH KATHY McCONNELL-MILLER: I think Kara does not even realize at this point
her potential of what the expectations are of her. I made a comment the other
day that for us to be successful Kara has got to be able to score at will. She
has got to be able to get the ball on the block. She has got to be a presence
inside. And she is going to be one of our go-to players. Her response is, I am
okay with that, if my teammates are. That sort of, you know -- I was driving
home that night thinking about what she had said and to me, I need to sit her
down and I need to tell her that she is 6-4, that she has great hands, that
she can play with her back to the basket as well as anybody in the conference.
That she can score over top of people, with single coverage. She can do that.
To me, it's all about building or rebuilding the confidence that she may have
once had or may have lost. But, to me, she has it, and I look at her in the
paint and I just see this presence that she can dominate. She just doesn't
know it yet.



Q. Of the newcomers you have, with the exception of Bianca, who do you expect
to help right away?



COACH KATHY McCONNELL-MILLER: Caley Dow. I didn't have the opportunity -- I
remember her in high school. I remember reading her name. I didn't have the
opportunity to see her play in high school. And when I took the job I remember
calling the coaches that I knew and asked them what their thoughts were on
her. They were very vague and they were very general. Nice player. Can shoot.
Probably needs to get in a little better shape. They were very vague comments.
I came in with some reservations that maybe she wasn't the player that I
thought she was or the previous staff had thought she was. The girl has lost
probably lost 15 pounds. She is in great shape. She is easily the most
versatile post player on our team as far as being able to score on the block
and being able to hit the 3. She is as consistent of a practice player that we
have had. Coming into this I didn't think that she would be one that would
probably work her way into the rotation because of her youth and lack of
experience, but I don't know how I will be able to keep her off the floor
because of what she brings to the program. Hannah Skildum the other freshmen
and I think Hannah is probably, you know -- she is one that we need
immediately. But I think the transition from high school to Big 12 play is
probably -- there's a little more distance than Caley has to go. They both
work extremely hard.



Q. Talk about differences in style or between last year and this year? Last
year with the triangle and everything, how much difference is there in
adjustment for this season?



WHITNEY LAW: It's different, but each style has its own strengths. Last year
the triangle was good for us. We used Karen, Jackie inside, and this year, as
Coach said, it's going to be more up-tempo, more fast break. I think that
plays along with our strengths. We have a lot of people that like to run, like
to get quick shots offer, so I think that's going to be good for us.



Q. You played for Debbie Ryan and then coached for a long time with Theresa
Grentz, both I think are known for strong defensive philosophies. Seal Barry
was similar type of coach. Do you have the similar strong defenses
philosophies as those coaches, and also if you can kind of talk about when you
guys have family reunions with your brothers and sisters do you guys talk
about anything but basketball?



COACH KATHY McCONNELL-MILLER: As the defensive philosophy I wouldn't consider
myself a very good defensive player. However, I would like to emphasize that
we do suspend a heck of a lot of time on the defensive end. If I have my
preference, I would play man-to-man night in, night out and get up and run and
jump and that's something that Debbie Ryan really engrained in us as a player.
However, I just think you have to adjust to your personnel. With our numbers,
I don't think, you know, if we have the opportunity to move a player like
Jackie McFarland to the small 4, the 3 spot, or a Caley Dow or maybe Anna
Nedovic we would have to go zone. We would not have a choice. But I don't know
that that's going to happen. That would be down the road, is down the road if
we were in foul trouble or if there were some injuries on the team. So my
preference is an up tempo man-to-man, not necessarily a pressing team because
we do like to run and we get up and down a lot so it's very difficult to do
that for 40 minutes. As far as my family is concerned, you know, I am one of
eight, and 6 of us did play in college and we presently have I have a sister
that coaches in the WNBA. I am the only one in college at this point then I
have got four brothers and sisters coaching high school. When we could get
together, which we try to do often, but now with Susie in Minnesota and the
rest of them are in Pittsburgh, when we do come home we do share quite a bit,
whether at a restaurant or at home, we're constantly grabbing napkins, drawing
up our favorite out of bounds plays, sliding it over. We definitely exchange
quite a bit. We're at different levels, but to me, coaching is coaching, and
we definitely share quite a bit. I would like to be able to share a little bit
more with the recruiting process but none of them have to experience what I
experience at that level. However, I have gone and back and recruited some of
my sisters players. Which was a challenge.



Q. Were there any words of wisdom or pieces of information that Coach Barry
left to you or told you?



COACH KATHY McCONNELL-MILLER: Well, everyone -- Coach and I had lunch last
Friday, and she tells me the most commonly asked questions that she gets, How
do you like retirement, and how do you like the new coach? And I consistently
get, What is it like following in a legend? For me, I would be crazy not to
use coach as a resource. I would be crazy not to call her up if I needed
something or to sit down and have lunch with her. I have so much respect for
Colorado basketball, Seal Barry what she's done for Colorado, what she's done
for the game of women's basketball. And with that said, she is right there on
campus everyday. And I think the two of us have, you know, could exist in such
a wonderful environment and there's a respect for what she's done and she has
been extremely respectful of what the changes that I have made. She will help
with recruiting and -- but I think, you know, unless asked, she's not going to
flip me and email and tell me to change my defenses or who to recruit. But
there's definitely a respect on both of our parts.

_

MODERATOR: Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Chesley Dabbs](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14295)

### [LaToya Davis](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14298)

### [Erin Grant](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13910)

### [Marsha Sharp](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13845)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Coach Marshall Sharp. Coach, welcome and introduce your team.

_

COACH MARSHA SHARP: Thank you. I will be glad to do that. The three seniors
that we have on the basketball team at Texas Tech this year are with me today,
and I will start on the far end. LaToya Davis is from Houston, Texas, and has
been a starter for us for a couple of years there, and we think has a chance
to finish her career at Texas Tech, as well as these other two, in great
style. She's a terrific player. I think she's a great warrior. I say that in
best sense possible, but I think people who are around the country who have
watched her play would agree she plays with that kind of mentality and we're
really pleased with what she has accomplished already for us. Chesley Dabbs
from Plano here in the Metro Plex. Has been a huge part of our team
particularly for the last two seasons. I think a lot of coaches in the Big 12
would agree with me that she might have been the best perimeter defense player
in the conference last year. And we feel like it's something that we build our
defense around and she always draws the toughest assignment going in that
direction, but I think something that really we have learned has been a big
part of us is her ability to score, particularly on a jump shot off of the
move. And it's something that we try to incorporate in our offense a great
deal. Erin Grant from Mansfield here in the Metro Plex, and she's certainly
had a good summer and a great summer. Played on USA team this summer as a pre-
season pick for all of the national players in the conference, the finalists.
A preseason Big 12 pick is all American pick as well. So you know she's our
pointguard. She's run with us. She has done that the entire time she's been at
Tech. There is only been an one game at Tech she didn't start because of a
slight injury, and I will tell you that these three are the heart and soul of
what we're about right now. It's my pleasure to coach them. I absolutely love
this class. They're one of my favorite classes to have coached in my career at
Texas Tech. I love their mentality and passion. How hard they work. I love
what they have done in the classroom and they have been a real joy for me to
be around, and I don't think anybody associated with our basketball program at
Tech has any thoughts of not trying to help them finish their careers out in a
great way. And we're all committed to that and looking forward to a season and
hopefully doing some things that are really special for all of us, most
particularly for these three seniors.

_

THE MODERATOR: Okay. Thank you, Coach.

_ 

Q. Coach. This November 13 is a big day, state Farm Classic. LSU is on the
schedule. How are you going to get this team ready for this big game?



COACH MARSHA SHARP: First of all, there's been a little bit of talk about the
nonconference schedule of our basketball team and I will -- told Coach Leach
that on November the 13th somewhere right before he started that game, I am
going to be wishing that I started a little more like him, maybe just the
thought I am going to have in my mind. But we're really excited about the
chance to play them. They're one the premier programs in the country
certainly. So Sonoma Augustus is the returning national player of the team.
Pokey Chapman first of all returning national coach of the year, and an
opportunity to host that classic. I think first of all is a great testimony to
our fans and the fact will be a great atmosphere. It will be sold out. It will
be packed and really excited only about our game that Georgia and Baylor is
going to be there as well. It's a great challenge for us, but I think for this
particular group and particularly for these guys that are here with me today
it's a great chance to see where we are early and move forward from that
point. We hope that our home court will help us that day, and I'm really
excited about the opportunity to show off Lubbock is our arena and atmosphere
that we have for women's basketball. I am really excited about the upcoming
day and can't believe it's just a little over three weeks away, but we're
ready to go.



Q. Coach, how do you plan on replacing Cisti Greenwalt this season, and do you
feel like you have personnel in place to do that?



COACH MARSHA SHARP: I think we have one that has made a great commitment to
try to get that done, Patrice. She is a sophomore out of California, named
Erin Myrick. I was so impressed with what she did during the summer. A lot of
people who watched us play last year know that she had a lot of difficulty
between the free-throw lines making trips up and down the court. From a
conditioning standpoint as well as just her ability to get there in time. She
spent more time probably on the track or on synthetic football field than she
did in the gym. I am proud of her ability to run and her speed and she really
committed to trying to be the one in that position. And I think she's done
that. Cisti was a great player. She was a great shot blocker. She altered
offense positions for people particularly because of her ability to do that.
But I think what you have with Erin in that maybe will be a little different
is that you have a consistency there. You are not going to get the flashy
play, but you are going to get consistent offense and defense every trip and I
think she's solid, that and we know exactly what she's going to give us every
time we come down the floor. There is no guesswork for any of them. She's
going to be involved and we're going to get her best effort every single trip.
I am really excited about her progress. She's obviously the only one of our
starters that's been not a returner. In some ways, she can just play great
defense and rebound it, set good picks for us, and let the offense come to
her. I think she'll have a chance to really complete our starting lineup and
be a good player.



Q. If you could talk about your experience this summer and what you learned
along the way and playing with some other people and how that benefits you?



ERIN GRANT: I had a great experience this summer going with the US basketball
team. Just get to go play with the type of talent. I played with the most
competitive people I played with ever. And the top talent in the country. I
think it really helped me and gave me an opportunity to see where I am right
now as far as one the top players and I enjoyed the opportunity to go. We had
a great time in Turkey, played against some great teams over there, and won
the gold medal to top it off. So I really had a great summer.



Q. Coach talked about what a incredible defense player you were. But I also
noticed last year especially you had some pretty great offense games. Is it
different to when you play defense that hard and with the kind of
responsibilities, is it different not to wear down and let that affect your
offense and what maybe can you do this year or maybe coach if you can talk
about that too to prevent that from happening.



CHELSEY DABBS: I don't think it wears me down too much because I am used to it
by now. But I think my defense helps me with my offense because if I am more
energetic on the defensive end. I am probably going to jump higher and go to
the basket stronger.

COACH MARSHA SHARP: I think it's a great question and something I looked at a
little bit over the summer as a coaching staff because I felt like as we went
through games last year that we did put her in a position where she had to
make some big shots at the end and she had to play so many minutes it affected
just her ability to score. One thing that we're doing and they can tell me
ever day, we finish our practices with shooting drills. Where we normally
through my career have done them at the beginning of practice and worked our
way through to scrimmage situations. We come back now and just straight shoot
it at the end because I think maybe there is some issues that we can shoot it.
We understand that wire going to have use our legs a little more, jump a
little better, do some things and concentrate a little more when we are tired.
Not just for Chesley, for all of us. I hope maybe we're kind of setting the
tone what you are going to have to do in the last three minutes of game to
finish. We were five or six points away last year from winning four more
basketball games than we did, and we lost 8. So we were close. We had to pull
the trigger a couple of times late and we didn't get shots to go. We're trying
maybe to change that mentality a little bit about being able to finish.



Q. Just what you were saying, is the fact that a lot of your players can be
very good pull-up jump shooters does make a big difference specially with the
tiredness just having the little extra in your legs in the end of the game to
make that shot?



COACH MARSHA SHARP: There is no question. Jump shooters affected more than
anybody else by fatigue. We have worked hard on conditioning, worked hard on
the mentality part of it, because it's one thing to go to the free-throw line
to shot and maybe make a post move and shoot it down low. But that jump
shooter you have got to have good legs all the way through to do that. Maybe
just a little bit better, that we're going to be able to maybe finish just a
couple of minutes longer so we just enough left, so we can finish maybe a
little better than maybe we were able to a year ago.



Q. There's been lots of talk yesterday about you know Tiffany Jackson, Sophia
was in here earlier. Yesterday, Courtney Paris generating big buzz. Can you
talk about your post player Latoya, where does she rank in the pecking order
here in the Big 12 of the best post players?



COACH MARSHA SHARP: Well, those are great players that you talked about, but,
you know, we have one. I think in the Big 12, you better have one that making
plays and play with an aggressive spirit and I think that's what I love the
very most about LaToya. She's a scorer. You know, it looks a lot different
from time to time. She does it a lot of different ways, but she scores. And
there is no question that she'll be a go-to player for us and certainly those
other guys are great players you don't want to take any away from them because
they're doing great things for their teams. I think LaToya can do this. I
don't want to embarrass here up here. Last year, playing in Dallas, she
stepped over, jumped over a player to score in the paint you know to give us a
chance to win and that's just the mentality she plays with and we just feel
like there are a lot of great things that she'll be able to do for our team
this year.



Q. My question is to coach and to the players. How important -- how do you
feel when you come here to play in Dallas, you got the Big 12 tournament area
talent in this area.



ERIN GRANT: I am excited we're coming back to Dallas for my senior year. We
changed up form Kansas City last year which was great for us too. But just
coming back home to Dallas again will be great for fans to come here and
support us and try to end it all in Dallas like we've done before.

CHELSEY DABBS: I think it will just to be great because we have a lot of fans
in this area that can drive an hour or two to come see us play.

LATOYA DAVIS: I think it will be a fun just to come in Dallas because my
family is in Houston, so it's not really that far of a drive come see us play
and just to come play in front of great fans because our fans pretty much --
it will be easy travel for them.

COACH MARSHA SHARP: In answer to your other question about scheduling games
here, we attempt to do as much as we can. We played the tournament in your
sophomore year, we attempt to schedule people in the Metro Plex as often as
possible just because it's a great place first of all. It's a great recruiting
for us second, and it's something we really enjoy. And I love the city. To be
here in the Metro Plex is a great place for us and we always have a lot of
really positive attention from Tech people when we're down here. You know, we
tried last year, we intentionally chose to bring the subregional to Dallas
with the University of Texas and it was a great chance for us to play here and
I think we had great response to that and there were a lot of folks from this
area that helped us a great deal try to put that together, and we really
appreciate that. It's tough sometimes to continually schedule, and I think
what our men are doing is a great idea to try to bring opponents here and make
it a neutral site I haven't explored that too much yet on the women's side
because we have had a couple of opportunities instead. It's probably something
that would be really a viable option for us in the future.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Barry Collier](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13707)

### [Jason Dourisseau](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13914)

### [Aleks Maric](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13719)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: Like to introduce Coach Collier. And the Nebraska team. Coach, if
you will, introduce your players, please.

_

COACH BARRY COLLIER: On the end, Wes Wilkinson, 6-10, senior, Grand Island,
Nebraska. Aleks Maric in the middle here, 6-11, sophomore from Sydney,
Australia. Next to me is Jason Dourisseau, 6-6, senior from Omaha, Nebraska.
Like all the teams here, we're happy to be here and happy that the season is
really upon us. We have had a half dozen practices and we have a bunch of
newcomers to our team as these guys will, I am sure, share with you. And
trying to mix them together and formulate an idea of the different
combinations and so forth has been a real challenge, but at the same time it's
been a lot of fun because we have a very talented, more athletic team than we
have probably ever had in the time I have been there and so we're going to
adjust to that and hopefully play to our strengths. We'll find out, whether
that means one more possession a game or maybe ten or fifteen if we can really
handle the faster pace.



Q. You mentioned the young guys and I think you probably had one of the better
recruiting classes in the Big 12. Does it look as good on the court as it does
on paper?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: I think it does. One of those newcomers is a junior
college transfer, B.J. Walker, who is about 6-9 and close to 240 and obviously
he has got experience having played 60 or 70 games in junior college. He has
played well and figures to be in our rotation somewhere. But we also have five
freshmen and three red shirt freshmen -- or three red shirts who are now in
their first year of action. And Marcus Perry in that who red-shirted last year
as a junior college transfer, he's really shooting the ball we will for us.
All of those -- it is a big group, all of those newcomers in different ways
have shown some of the things that they can do and they are behind these guys,
of course, because they don't know how we're trying to do things as a team
completely yet. But it's coming.



Q. I think most people look at Nebraska as a team that might break through
this year, perhaps maybe more than some others. Do you guys see it the same
way and what are going to be the key factors for that to happen?



JASON DOURISSEAU: I think we do see it that way, just simply the fact that we
can compete athletically with the upper echelon teams in our league and that
hasn't really been the case in some aspects of it the last few years. We have
a deep, talented team this year. We also have experience to go with it. I
think we're looking for it to be a breakthrough year as well.

ALEKS MARIC: I agree with Jason. I think we're going to (inaudible) team this
year, has the capability of breaking through in the upper half of the Big 12
hopefully. We'll be very competitive, and will be some surprises this year.



Q. You mentioned being able to compete athletically with these other teams. Do
you think that has been the main thing holding you all back?



JASON DOURISSEAU: No, I won't say it's the main thing. You still have to shoot
the ball, pass the ball, be able to dribble it without turning it over. It
definitely helps as far as rebounding and things like that because if you can
jump higher than somebody or as high, that gives you a better chance to
grabbing the rebound, but it's not the main thing, but it's definitely going
to help us this year.



Q. You haven't finished above 7th in the conference in your tenure at N.U.
What is going to be different this year that's going to allow to you get in
the top half of the Big 12?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: I think the major thing that we look at every year is
that our team formed up for the very first time on the first day of classes
when we had everybody together and we have until the end of the season to get
as much out of it as we possible I can. We don't really look at what previous
teams have done or try to predict even the future or even worry about, you
know, the pre-season rankings. I like the old adage of when it comes to
rankings, that our cow died last night, we don't need that bull anymore. In
this case, we just will go -- we focus on what our team is doing every day in
practice, and when that happens -- when I see that, I get excited about these
three guys next to me and their teammates and how important they place the --
what importance they place on our collective success. I think that over time
players get better and programs have a chance to get better. Part of our
struggle last year was injury to a couple of seniors that really hampered
them. The good news on that side was that we had a couple of freshmen who
probably got more playing time because of those injuries and were more of a
factor for them. With Aleks being one of those and Joe McCray, another one who
is not with us today, but those guys are going to be much, much better, I
believe, as sophomores having been through that experience. Then all of the
things these guys did in the off-season, west went to China with the team
during the summer, Aleks played on the Australian 21 and under team and had
basically another year of experience. That many games during the off-season,
during the summertime on the highest level of play. And no one worked harder
than Jason. I know that because of all the time that he put in. So there's
just -- seems to be great focus with this team and clearly that's important.



Q. You mentioned Marcus Perry. Any other new guys you think have a significant
impact?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: Marcus is certainly one who has a chance because of his
special ability to shoot the ball. Mentioned B.J. Walker. I think one of our
-- the junior college transfer, and two other guards that have played well in
the early going, Marcus Walker and Jamel White, Kansas City and New York City
respectively. They will challenge and push and help Charles Richardson who is
a returning pointguard for us and that's a real key position for us. And then
we have got a couple of really athletic freshmen forwards and Kyle Marks and
Chris Balham are those two. Probably in the order that I rattled those off,
that's who is played the best so far.



Q. Presence of more guards, more athletic players going to help McCray?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: Could you repeat that?



Q. How much is the presence of more depth, more guards who can play, how much
does that help McCray -- focus off him?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: Obviously the better balance that we have the better
we'll be as a basketball team. If you break down how we shot the ball last
year, you'd have to come to the conclusion that we seldom hit the side of the
barn from the inside last year and we need to be a better shooting basketball
team. I think when Joe shoots the ball well some games, it made all the
difference in the world. There are other games when he didn't shoot well and
we didn't really have anybody else to pull out and help us in that way. Wes,
with this group and Jason, Wes is as good a shooter as we have. At 6-10 now,
he's even -- I don't know what he ate in China but he grew another inch over
the summer. We do have more shooters -- we did not have as good a shooting
team last year. Part of it too is we have to be a better -- make better shot
selections. That's going to help with going into the bigger guys and making it
a focus to go inside to Aleks and play inside out and get a better balance
with shot attempts.



Q. Any player hates it when he says coach wants to see the ball in your hands
more. You think you all going to have the inside game to answer some of those
questions?



WES WILKINSON: Do I think -- yeah, I think we will. We have got Aleks Maric
returning this year. He was an awesome presence last year. B.J. Walker,
another large guy inside. We got some other large athletic players down there
that will help contribute to that.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Claire Coggins](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13907)

### [Twiggy McIntyre](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14281)

### [Deb Patterson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14194)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH DEB PATTERSON: On my left is Claire Coggins from Lee's Summit, Missouri.
To her left is Twiggy McIntyre from Tulsa, Oklahoma. Both of these young
ladies are returners to our program. We're looking forward to a new, fresh and
exciting transition year in our program with a great deal of youth and players
like Twiggy and Claire, who we hope will step in and make significant
contributions.

_

MODERATOR: Questions.

_ 

Q. How different will this team be this year and what will it look like?



COACH DEB PATTERSON: It will look extremely different because of the
familiarity that everyone has had with the core starting unit we have had on
the floor for three or four years. I think we'll be significantly more liberal
in a number of players that we play that will be significant difference. We'll
be significantly younger and I think for a lot of our fans and for people that
follow our program, it will be a real learning curve, people will be learning
about the individual games of each of these new players. And I think you will
also see a basketball team that's relatively inexperienced with respect to the
roles and how they play with one another. So across the board I guess would
you just say it's like a brand-new painting, so to speak. Nothing would be
extremely familiar to what people have seen before.



Q. You guys are now in leadership roles that are very different. You had this
established big 4 and then big 3 last year. Now they are all gone. What does
that mean to you, especially with four freshmen who I think, are probably
going to play a lot but are going to need a lot of guidance. Talk about how
you can provide that.



TWIGGY McIINTYRE: Personally I just find this experience to be very exciting.
Like Coach said, it's just a new year. Everything is going to be different. I
am just excited for the students that I have been given and all my fellow
teammates as well as the new freshmen coming in. We lost a lot of talent this
outgoing year but we also received a lot of talent. I am just confident that
this team can still continue on the winning legacy that Coach Patterson has
established at K. State.

CLAIRE COGGINS: I feel the same. I feel as though we came in to K. C. having
the big 4, having last year with the big 3 here. Now, our freshmen are coming
in and seeing us play and they really are coming in with nothing to lose. All
of them coming in, they fight so hard every day and I think that I am
confident with our team and our abilities and just like Twiggy said, I think
we'll continue on and still be a great team and a great program.



Q. Following that up, people on the outside might say oh, wow, how can Kansas
State rebound? Is it different or refreshing in some ways, you have -- you
reidentify yourself this year and especially with you two, and Jessica being
an upperclass person this is more a team you can put a stamp on and also just
the energy that the 18-year-olds are bringing into the program?



CLAIRE COGGINS: It's really fun to reidentify ourselves. It's kind of like we
don't have anyone really to fall back on. We don't have and All-American on
our team that we can say, oh, well, they are going to take that big shot,
whatever. I think that the progress and the winning that we do have and that
we'll have this season is going to be that much more special because we are
going to really have to work hard and fight to get it. I think that we're
really up for that challenge.

TWIGGY McIINTYRE: Agree with Claire. I think this season is just going to
really show how much of a team sport basketball is, especially at Kansas
State, every single, solitary person on that team, from freshmen to senior, is
going to have to bring it every single day. We're just going to have to be a
totally unified team this season.



Q. Talk about what you have seen so far, is there a player on this team that's
going to surprise people? If you can just each pick one person out and who
that person is and why.



CLAIRE COGGINS: For our fans I think that I am not going to pick just one
person because I mean, our team is so diverse in everything. I think honestly
I will pick the freshmen as a whole, all four of them. They bring such
intensity to each practice. Every time they are on the floor they are so heads
did you with Coach Patterson says all the rest of our coach, even us, they are
ready to learn and ready to fight. I think that that's very encouraging to see
and it's very refreshing and it's just awesome to see four young girls come in
the gym just eager. I think that's going to stand out to people. It stands out
to me.

TWIGGY McIINTYRE: I agree with that (laughter). I can't pick a favorite
player, someone I think is going to be the star of the season. I mean, to be
-- I don't think we're going to have that this season. That's going to be just
amazing experience. Like I said, it's going to be a team. But, yeah, like
Claire said, this freshman class we have coming in just amazing, amazing.
Amazing talent coming into practice every day just eager to learn and they are
just open to any advice that we can give and just so in tune with our coaches.
I am excited to step on the floor with them this season.



Q. Can you talk a little bit about what we're going to see from K. State?
Claire returns, I guess you are the leading returning scorer and has a game
where she can create her own shot a lot of times and take it to the basket. We
don't know much about these kids, what they can bring. Give us a run down on
that?



COACH DEB PATTERSON: I think more so than in the recent past, what we will see
from our basketball team is a lot of variety from every individual, even night
to night. In the past three years what we have had is Laurie Koehn who is
going to shoot 3s, you knew she'd make 50% of them from Venus. And Kendra
Wecker was going to get X number of points every night she stepped on the
floor. They were going to be jump shots, rebound put-backs and occasional
three and transition baskets. Megan Mahoney was going to be more of a creator
but when you saw her score it was going to be off the dribble. Occasionally
she would have a hot night from the floor. As I look at this year's team what
I see is a lot of diversity night to night, game to game, day-to-day with how
these players are productive. We don't necessarily have players in the gym
right now that have what I would call go-to elements of their game. This is
more of a team that you will see score in a variety of ways. I don't think
we'll depend on any one player to fill any one roll. So the challenge will be
for us to be very efficient, very productive, to take care of the basketball,
to play, as these ladies have alluded to, as a team. Find a way to create the
best shot, not necessarily for a person, but for our team, that given
possession. A lot of that will depend on matchups, you know, what does any
given opponent give us, where could they put their attention and how does that
open up opportunities for us as a team. JoAnn Hamlin, big strong physical
presence. Shana Wheeler, obviously has improved a great deal with her
offensive game and brings athleticism to our front-line that neither Jessica
McFarland or Hamlin can match. Jessica McFarland brings that size and strength
dimension. Danielle Zanotti is a player that makes everyone else on the
basketball floor better. She's excellent at the intangibles. She's a good
rebounder. Has good size in the wing. Kimberly Dietz can score off the dribble
and also has a good 3-point shot off the move and can get to the rim. Shalee
Lehning, like a Megan Mahoney, tends to be more of a creator and someone that
brings a great deal of speed to our full and half-court game. But will tend
probably to score more at the rim than in any other fashion. Marlies Gipson is
an undersized player that will remind you of that four player that can stretch
the floor some and is a dynamic presence in the paint. Brings a little bit of
power there, but is undersized so she can face up and attack from the high
post and sometimes stretch the defense out around the 3 point line. So I think
adding those elements to the mix, and Carolyn McCullough, who I think, you
know, brings the ability to stretch the defense as a primarily a spot-up
three-point shooter, and has good size on the wing, I think all of those are
aspects of the game that we'll rely on. From night to night, we may see
different people emerge and different combinations emerge that are successful
for us.



Q. Along the same lines what I asked earlier, but I think it's fair to say a
lot of people aren't expecting a lot from K. State this year, especially
people who are not familiar with your freshmen or less familiar with you two.
Is that kind of a challenge that perks you guys up some that for lack of a
better way to put it you have something to prove this year?



TWIGGY McIINTYRE: I personally don't, you know, look at rankings or even
consider things of that fashion. We play in the Big 12 conference, any team
from number 1 to number 12 can step up, have a surprise game, surprise night,
so I personally don't tend to pay attention to rankings. I have advised our
freshman class to do the same also. But we realize what we have lost, but we
also realize what we have gained as a team. Our expectations haven't changed.
We still expect to win as many games as possible.

CLAIRE COGGINS: I feel the same way as Twiggy does. It doesn't matter what
people expect. People don't affect our team in any way, shape or form. It's
our team that has to come together and we're not proving anything to anyone.
We're proving things to ourselves and to our opponents. I think that -- I
don't think any of us look at rankings and -- I mean, obviously, to be ranked
number 1 it's an honor, but it's not something that it's a preseason pick
anyway, you know, I mean we got the whole season to go. I think we're all just
eager and excited to get going.



End of FastScripts...

| ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Aaron Bruce](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13911)

### [Tim Bush](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14302)

### [Scott Drew](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14205)

### [Tommy Swanson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14305)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH SCOTT DREW: It's always great coming to Dallas. Every coach likes to
talk about progress with their teams and after back-to-back years, 6
scholarship guys now moving up to 10 scholarship players and having a chance
to practice with 5-on-5 with scholarship players we are very excited about
that. It's a situation where I think we're definitely heading in the right
direction. Most of the scouting services had a recruiting class reigned in the
top 20, 25. We are very pleased not only with the talent level but with the
character and the people that we're bringing into our program.



Q. What kind of challenges are you facing with the schedule?



COACH SCOTT DREW: I think right now it's basically like a normal situation,
when you start that first week of practice everybody is excited to get out
there and get after it. I know as November approaches and other teams are
playing games and December approaches it's going to be a little more difficult
on our players. But at the same time our coaching staff has really tried to
focus more this three months of practice that we have been giving into
individual development, skill development so that hopefully each person will
improve in the weight room and improve physically then improve on their
passing -- passing, shooting, rebounding, dribbling skills like that that they
normally might not get a chance to spend a lot of time on.



Q. Almost give you advantage because you will see your opponents have already
played by the time they come to you they won't have any film to review?



COACH SCOTT DREW: That would be an advantage. There's advantages and
disadvantages. We like to focus on the advantages, so thank you for pointing
that one out.



Q. I think everybody knows you stepped into a difficult situation. What have
the first two years been like and where do you think you are at right now?



COACH SCOTT DREW: Well, I know one thing, I didn't think I was going to go
bald at an early age, but the last two years definitely have sped that process
up. But as far as it's been great seeing the transformation of the team in the
first two years from the standpoint the group of individuals that we have been
able to coach those two years really had a lot of pride about how hard they
have played and how they represented Baylor, really taken a personal interest
in trying to make that be a positive and show everybody else even if we don't
win on the scoreboard we are representing Baylor in the right way. That's what
we're very pleased about the type of student athletes we are bringing into
Baylor and representing Baylor.



Q. Can you all address -- of course you don't know what it will be like during
the nonconference season, can you address maybe some of your trepidations,
concerns about what that might be like and also the possibility that then you
can turn it -- sweep through the Big 12 undefeated and force the N.C.A. to
take you in their tournament?



AARON BRUCE: Well, obviously we have no control over what has happened, so we
are just at the moment focused on coming together as a team, like Coach said,
working on the individual aspects that's going to make as great a team in the
Big 12 and help us through the season. We're just looking forward to it,
looking forward to getting on court. Next few months will be hard, but I think
the start when we have got a new group like we have, the start of getting
together and learning is hard for any group. I don't see it as a great
negative. I think that's something to work through and something to deal with.

TOMMY SWANSON: Kind of see it as just extended summer. Like Coach said, it's
more time for individual work and kind of brining it all together come late
November, December, and I guess for that time period. I mean, where we will be
at in December is where most teams will be preparing right now. Just more time
to get ready for the season, more time to prepare ourselves. I see it as an
advantage.

TIM BUSH: I see it as an opportunity to work on things that you probably
didn't improve on over the summer as you did -- definitely free individual
game. But I think as a team we have a lot of time to grow and build some
chemistry over the course of the three months because we have so many freshmen
and I think it's going to be fun. It's been great so far.



Q. The second part of that as far as what you can do in the Big 12, allow
yourself to dream?



AARON BRUCE: Absolutely. I think everybody does. Everyone starts the season
with a dream. As we're no different than any other team. The Big 12 is such a
great conference that you have an off night and you are sure to get better.
And you have a great night and you are in a chance with anybody in the league.
We're just going to work as hard as we can at the moment. We're not going to
look too far down the track and get ahead of ourselves anything like. That we
have got a lot of work to do, and we're willing to put in the work. We have a
great coaching staff. Great training staff, and the people that we have
playing genuinely want to work and genuinely want to get better, so that's
definitely a positive.



Q. Generally if you practice, practice, practice it could be monotonous. Any
plans to break up the monotony?



COACH SCOTT DREW: Most definitely. We are going to have more days off, more
days structured maybe on just individual development where it's just not the
rigorous wear and tear. I think every coach realizes you can't practice three,
four hours a day for three months and then prepare to play a season. We're
hoping to gear in a way that when most teams hit those dog days in February we
don't hit them because we are fresh. With that you have to remind yourself as
a coach because you always want to do more and more, we have got to make sure
we tailor it back so that we don't wear them down or put them in that
situation. We'll definitely do things different because of it.



Q. Kind of unprecedented thing you are dealing with. How did you go about the
process of figuring out just what you were going to do at least next three
months?



COACH SCOTT DREW: First of all, you pray about anything, so we put prayer in
there. The second thing, talk to coaches in the profession you represent and
say if this happened to you, how would you handle it. Get their opinions. Then
after that, spend some time with different strength coaches and people in the
NBA asking them as far as rejuvenation, as far as weight training, what is the
best way to prepare in the next three months so that we can improve physically
and not peak early, but be able to peak when it comes game time when we need
them to peak. That's basically what we did is a lot of research and then after
you get everyone's opinion kind of put that together and phone in your
opinion.



Q. When coaches yesterday were asked what they would do under your
circumstances, they really didn't have an answer. They figured it would be a
bigger nightmare for the players than the coach?



COACH SCOTT DREW: They didn't have to do the research. I think most coaches
will tell you practice is something we enjoy doing, we love it practices;
players will tell you that the game is why they practice. It's a situation
whereas coaching -- as a coaching staff we will try to make sure in the next
three months they have an opportunity to improve not only our team but improve
themselves. And like I said, normally you can't spend the amount of time on
individual development that we're going to be able to spend, so hopefully in
the next three months each of our players are better individually because of
it.



Q. In your creative way to prepare for this, is there any way to play -- I am
just wondering, any way to play a game that's outside an intrasquad situation
that would be in N.C.A.A. guidelines, stage a game against another --



COACH SCOTT DREW: Unfortunately, no. We have explored every option, basically
you could do something with our students. What we will do is have a couple of
maybe innersquad scrimmages where now we'll play 5-on-5 in front of our fans
and one of the Baylor teams is going to win so that's good. But that way you
let them experience what is right with the crowd atmosphere and make it
simulate the game. The other thing is you are allowed occasionally to have
alumni come back and practice. Maybe we will have a couple past players come
back occasionally and practice, do some things along those lines.
Unfortunately we can't bring in any other teams. We have explored those
options.



Q. It sounds like this is not going to be a bunker (sic) mentality, your
players probably won't have to deal with a lot of press for a long time. Is
that a good thing? Is that something you are not going to have a media day for
scrimmage, are you?



COACH SCOTT DREW: No. I do think, though, when games especially start to be
played, I would assume they will be asked questions like, now, how are you
feeling after you have been able to practice but everybody is playing and you
are not playing? So I think they will still get some of that. At the same time
I think it's a great way, as Aaron talked about, bonding as a team and on the
way up we have talked about it different times also, guys getting together and
watching other teams play and let them do their own scouting reports.



Q. Not going to shut the team down?



COACH SCOTT DREW: No. No not at all.



Q. Getting to on-court matters, talk about some of the new guys, how you think
they are going to have an impact, especially the guards?



COACH SCOTT DREW: I think start with the new players, first of all, Henry
Dugat is somebody that -- actually I even have a better idea. I will let each
one of you describe one of the new guys. Tim, why don't you describe Henry
Dugat.

TIM BUSH: Henry, he's kind of like the -- like Shaq calls, the Duane Wade
flash. I guess he's kind of the flash of our team. Really athletic, a slasher,
extremely quick, great with the ball. Won't ever turn it over. He's going to
be a great, great player some day. Definitely looking forward to playing with
them.

COACH SCOTT DREW: Curtis Jerrells.

AARON BRUCE: He's made a great impression on me so far. I am very impressed
with him. He's already has a big solid body. I think he's one of the strongest
guys on our team. That's a plus. Also one of the hardest workers on the team,
so add that on to the body that he already has and you have got sort of a
method for greatness. He has a great body, great work ethic, great skills. And
he can shoot the ball from the outside. Very safe with the ball. I think his
body helps him with pressure and stuff like that, so when we get into the Big
12 season, I'd say I don't see him facing too many problems in the sense of
dealing with pressure stuff like that.

COACH SCOTT DREW: Kevin Rogers.

TOMMY SWANSON: He's just an amazing athlete. Can jump out the gym, very good
floor speed, foot speed, just -- he has a good, for his height and his body
type, great training, what else can I say about him. His post moves are past
his time or before his time because he's just a great athlete, just great
person to be around. Hard working. Great guy to be around. He's like all our
other freshmen, just looking to get better and learn. I think that's one of
the biggest aspects of our entire freshman class, that they are willing to
learn and take everything in.

COACH SCOTT DREW: Jari.

AARON BRUCE: Jari is another foreigner in the group. He's from Finland. He
brings a great different dimension to our team. He's a big guy, 6-10. He can
step out and shoot the three. Be very much 50/50. Can go back in on post, when
you got somebody like that it's a very handy tool to have I guess. He poses a
lot of matchup problems with teams.

TIM BUSH: Mamadou, a 7-footer, he's a great guy. Definitely a hard worker. His
profile speaks for itself. Came in weighing about 197, now he's up to about
246, 245, something like that. Getting stronger in the weight room. Has a
great (inaudible) game. I always tell him, man, you can be better than Hakim
Olajuwon. He's just great. He's improving every day. He's really, really
young, but he's improving every day and I love him to death. Love him a lot.
Great guy.



Q. A lot of players in the Big 12 were really impressed with you last year.
What were your impressions of your first year in American ball?



AARON BRUCE: I was just put in a very fortunate situation. I knew about the
coaching staff at Baylor and that's the main reason that I chose to come to
Baylor. Just I can only talk about my season last year. I have only been able
to do as much as my teammates and my coaching staff have allowed me to do.
Honestly, without them, I could have played at other places and had a horrible
season, who knows. But I just thank my teammates very much for their support
and coaching staff's support. They have trusted me and put a lot of work,
time, and trusted me with leading a group at a very young age, something I
think I have adapted to pretty well. Just very thankful really. And hopefully
this year we can put things together as a team and come Big 12 season really
turn some heads.

_

MODERATOR: Final words.

_

COACH SCOTT DREW: Make sure you got some dessert. It was pretty good.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Kevin Bookout](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14325)

### [Terrell Everett](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14326)

### [Taj Gray](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13915)

### [Kelvin Sampson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13715)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: On the far left is Terrell Everett; nickname is Relly
Rell (phonetic). In the middle -- I am not going to tell you what this is --
Taj Gray; I call him Taj Mahal. And this is Kevin, with three syllables, from
Stroud, Oklahoma. Opening comment, I like our team. I have liked most of our
teams at Oklahoma. I think we have been blessed with good senior leadership.
Those teams tend to practice well. They tend to get it. Kevin is a fourth year
guy, he's been a stalwart in our program for four years. Taj is from Wichita,
Kansas, which is kind of like North Oklahoma, only two hours and 15 minutes
away. Lots expected of Taj this year. We tell our guys, embrace it. What is
the worst thing that can happen to you? We're still playing basketball here
and I think Taj is going to have a great year. Terrell, I thought last year
our best player was, depending on which part of the year it was. Early on I
thought it was Kevin and then Taj kind of took over toward the middle and then
might have been Terrell at the end. But all three of those kids as seniors
will be expected to have big years, and I think they will.



Q. A lot of teams in the Big 12 have a lot of underclassmen, freshmen,
sophomores. What kind of advantage is having an upperclass-laden team?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: If you asked me would I rather have talent or
experience, I will always rather have talent. Last year this time the most
experienced teams in our league was Oklahoma State and Kansas. We didn't start
any seniors most of the year -- Johnny Gilbert or Jason started starting, but
we were an inexperienced team last year. So this league is so talented I don't
know what advantage it gives you. It depends on how good the other teams are.
There is about 4, 5 teams in this league that's good enough to win it. Who
would have ever thought that we would come up on the outside last year and
stay for the first place? And some of the more experienced teams didn't win
the league, so, experience is relevant to talent. If your experience is really
good players, then that's an advantage. Thing about basketball unlike some
other sports is that you have got October, November, December, you have got
three months before you play a conference game. So once you get to January, I
am not sure there's such a thing as freshmen anymore. A lot of experience
gained in those three months.



Q. You are being picked pretty high this year, near the top. What --



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Is that good or bad?



Q. What area do you think if you were to win the league again, what area do
you think will be determined plus or minus for your team?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Repeat the last part.



Q. What would have to happen, what area would have to happen to get over the
top?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: I think that Rick will have had to have upset a couple
of guys and have them quit. That would probably help. I think P.J. is probably
going to go to class now. That's probably not going to happen. I don't know. I
don't know. For us, believe it or not, we don't really talk a whole lot about
winning the league Championship. We didn't even know we won the league
championship last year until the last game of the last day the buzzer, hey, we
just won the league or at least we tied for it. But this year, you know, I
don't know that we worry a whole lot about that. I understand you are asking
the question, but the new guys will have to come in and really impact us in
their way. They don't have to be our best players. Our best players are going
to be one of these three guys sitting beside me. But Michael Neal has to come
in and do the things that we have recruited him to do. I think he's a very
good offensive basketball player. He can really shoot. He's really a
nontypical junior college kid in that he is a much better basketball player
than he is an athlete. Chris Walker has got to play some point guard for us.
Everybody wants to know who your starter is, I don't know if it matters who
your starter is, but who plays. The second leading assist guy in this league
returns this year in Terrell Everett. He averaged over 5 assists a game last
year. Just about every big game down the stretch he was our pointguard, so
we'll be fine at the point guard, just depends on what we decide to play
there. Both of them will be pretty good. Then health, we have got to stay
healthy. And Taj has got to stop picking up stupid fouls early in the game.
Can you guys write about that and tell him to stop doing that? I have tried to
talk to him and it doesn't work. Foul trouble and health.



Q. Coach, in a conference that seems to be laden with a lot of guards, very
talented guards, how important is it having two big men that are so talented
pick up the bulk of your scoring?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Kevin is kind of like a dinosaur. (Laughter.) But I
don't know. If size was so important, whatever happened to them? Where did
they go anyway? Kevin, I don't know, size -- size only helps you if they are
good. I referenced to Oklahoma State, I thought that they were -- for most of
the year probably the best team in our league. Who was their big man? It's a
different era. We still want to hang on to who is Wilt Chamberland and Bill
Russell and who is Shaq. Those guys, nobody is like them. I don't know who is
-- size is important, but athleticism seems to be carrying the day in college
basketball, maybe more so than size. Kevin has certain things that he's good
at and, you know, he's not going to allow you with any Tracy McGrady type
dunks anytime soon. Can you still dunk Kevin?

KEVIN BOOKOUT: Barely.

COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Haven't seen him dunk lately. Then again, haven't seen
him play much lately. Always been hurt. I don't know, I think our size,
Kevin's size hurts him, when Kevin's size hurts people, when we can get him in
half-court situations. But teams that play fast, and we're going to try to
play as fast as we can this year, but Kevin is good at that too. He just does
different things well. Taj, the faster you play the better for him. So but
everybody in our league has good big men, but their big men are good at
different things.



Q. Kevin, Baylor doesn't play a game for 13 weeks so they got 13 weeks of
practice. Can you imagine 13 weeks of practice with Coach Sampson?



KEVIN BOOKOUT: I'd enjoy every second of it. (Laughter).

COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Spoken like a true senior. Ask Terrell that. Terrell
just fainted. (Laughter). How about that Terrell, 13 straight weeks of
practice, no games? You talk about -- you think we have had a problem with
transfers, whoa. (Laughter.) They won't make it to Halloween.



Q. What are your opinions of Chris Walker so far? Is he going to be able to
take the ball out of your hands some of the time?



TERRELL EVERETT: Yeah, I think he would. He's a pretty tough pointguard, smart
pointguard, he doesn't really look to score a lot. He just wants to run the
team, plays good on ball defense. Really helps us on the defensive end. So,
yeah, I think he will log in a lot of minutes at pointguard.

COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: How about Taj? Anybody want to ask Taj a question?



Q. Coach Sampson mentioned how much better you'd like to play when the team is
getting up and down the floor. Could you think this is going to be a team
that's going to be effective in that style of play this season and why?



TAJ GRAY: Most definitely. I think this team with Terrell and Chris Walker,
who really like to push the ball, want to get easy baskets and get up-and-down
(inaudible) Bookout (inaudible) or something. But, no, this team wants to get
down the floor. That's what we're practicing, that's what Coach emphasizes in
practice is try to get as many baskets as we can, so that's what we're going
to go for this year.



Q. How versatile is this team? Talk about them getting up and down, feel like
they are pretty good in the half court as well? Feel like you can answer any
type of challenges you all see?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Seemed like last couple of years there was a long time
there where we never had a problem versus zones. All of a sudden last couple
years there was possessions, we looked like we didn't even know what a zone
was. I think we're more prepared now versus that because of, you know, we have
got more guys that can probably make a jump shot. I thought our best shooter
last year was McKenzie, though he's left, Michael Neal is a really good
shooter. Godbold really improved in that area. Terrell, I think, has improved
as a shooter. But versatility, Terrell a pointguard? No, he's just a guard.
He's just a good guard. You know, is Nate Carter a 3? No. Is he a 4? No. He's
just a good player. You know, I think that's where versatility comes in. Taj
doesn't have a position. Kevin is just a post man. He's a good passer, great
hands, can rebound, can score. He's not going to step outside and shoot 3s,
but we have a lot of guys that can play up and down the line. I always prefer
those type players. But I don't know if we got an answer for everything we'll
be pretty good though.



Q. (Inaudible) is he what you call a scorer, Nate?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Yeah. Nate is a scorer. Left-handed, really worked hard
on his outside shooting, has become a pretty good outside shooter. But he's a
really good one-on-one player. Can create a shot for himself. He's strong.
Pound for pound, Nate is the strongest guy on our team pound for pound.

TAJ GRAY: I think so.

COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Austin Johnson, he'd be in there too. I think -- Nate is
just a good basketball player, can create his own shot, can score. I think
that left-handed stuff is actually something to it.



Q. I would imagine all coaches like options. Is that the big thing about this
team is that it sounds like you have got dozens of them in terms of player
combinations?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: We don't even have a dozen players. (Laughter). I think
how many guys -- I think we got 10 or 11 on scholarship. Yeah, you know, for a
team that doesn't have a lot of guys on your team, we do have a lot of -- we
have got five guards and seems we have got four, five post guys. That's why
the gentleman asked me what are the keys. I kind of rambled there at first,
but if we stay healthy, that's going to be a big key for this team. You have
teams that can sustain an injury, I don't think this team can, you know, Kevin
will be back in the next week or so practicing, and Taj, you know, our main
guys have to average 30 minutes a game. I have never liked rotating guys.
We're going to play seven or eight. This year we will probably play 8 and a
half. The 9th guy some games will play more than others, but I think that's
something that we'll be able to do more so than others because you can play
small. If Taj gets in foul trouble you don't mind playing Nate up front.
Longar, the big sophomore, probably the best practice he's ever had yesterday,
so he's a kid that can be big too. We can be small or big, so -- if we can
keep them healthy, that will be something that will help us down the line.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [LaToya Bond](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13853)

### [Christelle
N'Garsanet](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13908)

### [Cindy Stein](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14283)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome the Tigers from the University of Missouri to
the stage. We would like to introduce Coach Cindy Stein, who, if you will,
Coach, introduce your players.

_

COACH CINDY STEIN: Got two players here, LaToya Bond, who is a senior out of
Illinois. LaToya is a great leader for our team. She will prove to you how
vocal she is maybe while she's here. But somebody that we rely on heavily
within our program to help lead us defensively, offensively, tremendous
passer, and LaToya has come back even better this year. We're really looking
for great thing out of her. Christelle N'Garsanet, another senior. She's
originally from Ivory Coast of Africa. Tremendous athlete. Tremendous
rebounder. Another very good leader on our team, has come back in great shape,
stronger, faster and really doing a lot of good things for us. And these two
young ladies have been voted as captains by their teammates which I think also
exemplary nice where they are within our program. So we're looking forward to
this year the whole idea around the coffee thing is after we got those pre-
season poles we figured we needed to wake you all up and we understand why the
poles are what they are. We didn't earn peoples' respect last year and our
goal this year is to make sure that people understand what we want out of the
university of Missouri.



Q. Tell me about this team, what you expect with all of your starters
returning and most of your scoring returning as well?



COACH CINDY STEIN: We expect a lot of things. I tell you, we understand kind
of why we probably weren't selected real high in the polls, not that we're
going to get wrapped up into that, but at the same time we understand. That
last year was a very disappointing year in us. We felt as though we could have
done a lot things better. The fact that we didn't, this team has really
responded to that. This team really stuck it out this summer working very
hard, doing things on their own, pushing their teammates making sure that they
came back. They played a lot of basketball in summer. Came back in the fall
really got the new kids involved. This is a team that has been extremely
dedicated to making sure that the disappointments of last year don't happen
this season.



Q. Turnovers were an issue for your team last year. Do you think you are going
to be sure --



COACH CINDY STEIN: Obviously, we felt the turnovers our defense needed to be a
lot better and then obviously we had trouble scoring last year at times. I
feel what we have seen thus -- this part of the season and it's still early, I
think that we're doing better, ten times better on the defensive end. I think
we're scoring a lot better because our kids have worked on those things this
summer. But we are playing quickly. The turnovers' issue is still something
that we're working out in practice.



Q. What did you guys learn from last year because obviously talent was there
you bring it all back this year. What can make the difference in having the
type of season you guys want to have as opposed to what you had last year?



LATOYA BOND: I think that last year we weren't mature enough and we didn't
realize how good we could be as a team if we all put in together the effort. I
think we learned a lot from last year just knowing exactly how hard we have to
work and what it takes to be a great team.

CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET: I think from last year we just learned that we need
more leaders and also better chemistry on the court. And I think we have been
doing pretty good job working on that.



Q. Talk about -- I know you had a crazy year with turnover of players last
year, and just talk about how difficult that was and then how much, you know,
different it's going to be this year with just players that you can count on
being there?



COACH CINDY STEIN: Well, it's funny because we really talk a lot about the
fact that last year as much as we want to move forward we learned a lot from
last year. Last year I would tell you from a professional standpoint it was
probably the most disappointing of all in my career and from a personal
standpoint, it was also extremely difficult. So it's having players leave
during the middle of the year; having key injuries to players all year long;
it just seemed like there was something that was always going on. I think
LaToya hit upon that in the fact that our maturity level -- we kind of assumed
someone else was going to kind of do it. This team really grew as a team
throughout the year. I felt we responded towards the end. That's kind of where
we are going right now. We have learned so much from last year and how you can
handle that adversity; how you handle disappointments and I think we have a
better sense of what we're all about this year.



Q. You guys talked about just getting that consistency on the court. What did
you guys do this summer as captains to kind of get the team together and maybe
kind of gel a little bit?



LATOYA BOND: We were constantly getting everybody together to play open
(inaudible), just get in the gym and work on your skills and shooting, stuff
like that. I mean, we were playing like just about every day of the week just
trying to get the feel of each other and let each other know that this year
can be a big year for us.

CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET: Pretty much that's what she said, everything. We also
tried to do a lot of things together as a team and it's been working pretty
well. That's pretty much it.



Q. It is easier to motivate a team that you feel is being overlooked?



COACH CINDY STEIN: I would tell you that that's an interesting question just
in -- what is hard to respond to that is this team right now works really
hard, so I haven't had to do a lot of motivating. Last year I felt like I
needed a stick of dynamite every game, every practice, you know, and my foot
wasn't big enough in some places. It was a constant struggle all year long up
until the last quarter of the season and then they finally came on. So that's
what is -- last year we tried everything to motivate them. Nothing worked.
This group, I think, has learned from that and that's how they responded. I
haven't had to motivate them for practice. They are ready to go.



Q. I guess if the players could talk about this. What about the chemistry
between you two, as guard and post player, you guys have played with each
other for a while now. I think when Missouri works is when things are working
with you two because you both can be effective scoring both from outside and
inside, and obviously LaToya penetrating too. Talk about that. And, Cindy, can
you talk about that chemistry between those two?



LATOYA BOND: Obviously to have a good team you have to have a good inside
presence and outside. You can kick the ball in and if teams double-up on
Christelle, we also have great 3-point shooters. That's what every great team
has is inside, outside presence.

CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET: I think we have pretty good chemistry. I really like to
play with her, love to play with her. I think she kind of understands me all
the time. We don't have to tell each other stuff. I think it's the same with
me. I kind of I can read a lot of her actions and emotions. I think that
really helps. I think we have a pretty good chemistry. And overall we have
pretty good chemistry on the team.

COACH CINDY STEIN: I would agree with that. I think these two are roommates.
They get along pretty well. LaToya a lot of times serves as Christelle's
interpreter because when Christelle gets really excited in practice, she has
that French accent that, you know -- that I can't understand her and LaToya is
usually telling me what she just said. So these two do play very well
together. They look for one another and I think that a lot of people assume --
for instance, LaToya doesn't say a whole lot, and she's quiet, but this team,
our team looks for her all the time. She doesn't always have to say anything
because they are looking for her. She's usually in the right spot. Then
obviously Christelle runs the floor so well and she can get up there and run
with LaToya. I think it's a very good combination.



Q. What about depth? You guys have five starters coming back, but how much
depth do you feel you have and how important will that be for this team?



COACH CINDY STEIN: I think the key to our team this year is our depth. I think
that that's why we look and feel like we can do something this year within our
conference. It's so important and I really thought coming there that our five
newcomers would be more significant in practice right now. Actually, it's the
other kids. It's the nine kids that are returning that are really being
competitive. And doesn't mean that our newcomers aren't coming along, but they
are not as significant because everybody else -- Blair Hardiek has come back
blazing and really pushing LaToya, playing point guard, and we've talked about
her playing point and LaToya at the two because LaToya is very versatile.
She's come back very strong. EeTisha Riddle is looking pretty good. Kassie
Drew is shooting the lights out. Seems like everybody is so much more
comfortable. Everyone is playing really well and they are not really -- they
are really working hard for those top five spots, but also understanding if
they play that hard they will all play.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Will Blalock](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14319)

### [Wayne Morgan](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14212)

### [Curtis Stinson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13913)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: Coach Wayne Morgan will introduce his players.

_

COACH WAYNE MORGAN: How is everyone today? To my immediate left is Curtis
Stinson, junior guard for us, all Big 12 player. To his left is Will Blalock,
our pointguard and a very, very good player also. We're looking forward to
this year, all excited about it. We started practicing last Saturday, like the
rest of the teams across the country. We have tried to work extremely hard in
those initial practices, we will all year. We think that we have a chance to
be a really good team. I believe that our perimeter players Will, Curtis,
Tasheed Carr, Rashon Clark, John Neal, Anthony Davis comprise one of the best
perimeters in the country, maybe not the best but I think they can play
against any perimeter in the country. This year would be the first time in my
third-year career that I have coached a team with no returning player at the
four or five position. We have got some young kids that we have recruited that
are talented but we're working very hard to try to acclimate them to the
rigors of the Big 12.



Q. Through these media days, a lot of folks have referred to you (inaudible)
how do you see the other pieces fitting around them?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: That's what we're really working on right now. Shawn
Taggart is a freshman, he's very good. Really pleasant surprise from was Ross
Marsden, who is a freshman, he's good. We have -- Mr. Evanovich came to us
from South Kent. He's 6-8, getting into great shape. He's probably our
heaviest at 230 pounds. Jiri Hubalek, from Prague, Czech Republic. He's
working really hard. Jessan Gray, who is a product of Iowa from Davenport, who
went first to Indiana, then after Indiana went to Tyler Junior College, and
now we have him back. So those are our big guys. Four of them are 6-10, but
the heaviest one is 220. Just working to getting stronger and playing together
and trying to take advantage of the things what we have that are positive.



Q. (Inaudible)?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I think we can see what is in place. A lot of things have
to happen, but if those things happen, I think we have a chance to be a good
team.



Q. Can you talk about how Curtis and Will play together? Obviously they are
both great individual talents, but how do you get those talents to mesh?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: It's a very interesting story. They both played in prep
school and Curtis went Winchendon and Will went to Notre Dame. The two schools
are like 17 miles apart. So they both signed early to come to Iowa State. The
whole time I tried to get them to be friends and talk to each other and they
wouldn't because they had had to compete with each other. Since they came to
Iowa State they are presently roommates, they are best friends. They do most
of the stuff that they do together. I think they spent so much time together
and played together and talk about the game that they intuitively are almost
like twins: One knows where the other one is or what the other one is going to
do in the very next instant. They are terrific complements to each other. When
they were freshmen, I knew they were both great guards. And both point guards,
I wasn't quite sure how to do that. I remember telling them you guys work out
who has the ball when, and they did.



Q. Can you two talk about growing together and learning what each other was
about and how close those ties are right now?



CURTIS STINSON: Well, like Coach says, you know, we probably wasn't talking to
each other, that made us even bond even close when it was time to get to Iowa
State and play together. That's something that we just put behind us and just
came together. We knew we was going to be teammates for four years and we just
clicked. Like I said, probably like an East Coast thing, I don't know, maybe
that he knows how New York guys play. I know how Boston guys play. We know we
want the ball at and where we're best at. Like I always say, without Will I
don't know where I would probably be. He gives me the ball when I need it and
in the right positions and I am glad have him on my team.

WILL BLALOCK: Since we have been at Iowa State we just bond so much all the
time like as far as being home, we always talk about basketball and we always
talk about what we should have done better this game or that game how we
should have handled this or that possession. I think talking to each other
socially he it got so much easier when it came down for practice and getting
prepared for the next opponent that we kind of critiqued our mistakes I want
to say ever since our freshman year and we always got better and we just got
better every day. I don't know, it's just been working out for the better for
us and we have got to keep it up.



Q. Having been through the Big 12 now and knowing pretty much who is got what
coming back, what is it going to take for you guys to contend for that top
spot?



CURTIS STINSON: Going to take hard work, team effort, you know, there isn't an
"I" in team, so it takes a team thing to get the job done now. We know that
teams have great players coming back and some teams have like the whole team
coming back. All depends what the team do and how we play together to be
successful. Only thing we want to do is make sure we leave everything on the
floor every time we step out there.

WILL BLALOCK: Like Curtis said, it going to take a lot of hard work and that's
going to come in practice and, yeah, me and him know what the Big 12 is like
because we have been here for two years. But at the same time, like Coach
Morgan told you prior to that question, the front court, we don't have any
return or 4 or 5 men, so it has kind of placed on my and his chest to get the
big guys ready for the Big 12 because they don't know the physicality of what
the Big 12 is. Like the referees are going to let them play and our biggest
guy is only 200 and maybe 20 pounds, we got to physically get them ready and
we got to be prepared to battle every day in practice just to get them ready.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [Lori Allen](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16362)

### [Kurt Budke](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14197)

### [Destanie Sykes](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13909)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: Oklahoma State has now joined us at the table. We'd like to welcome
Kurt Budke, the coach, and let him introduce his players and make a couple of
comments.

_

COACH KURT BUDKE: Good morning. The players I brought with me Destanie Sykes,
a junior from Duncanville, Texas. Destanie has been tremendous leader for my
new program so far, great athlete, comes to work every day willing to do
whatever we ask. No question with this team, I think as a starter. She's
earned it. She's earned from it day one since I have been there. And very
proud to be working with her everyday. Lori Allen from Moore, Oklahoma the
reigning Miss O.S.U., if you didn't know that, was voted Miss O.S.U -- is that
what it is -- just last week. So Miss O.S.U. is sitting with us. Again, she's
a senior. These two people have made my transition into a new program so easy
for me because they both are just -- they are two people you would adopt too.
Two people I hope my daughter grows up to be like. They have made just made it
so easy and helped with the younger kids and showed them exactly that as we do
things there's a purpose for everything we do and to hang in there and work
hard. I am proud to have them. Lori has had a few injuries over the years.
We're hoping that she can be injury free this year and have a great senior
year as she leaves O.S.U. and goes for Miss Oklahoma in June; is that right?

LORI ALLEN: That's right.

COACH KURT BUDKE: I am proud to be here. I have worked my whole life for this
opportunity, every move I have made along the way was for a chance to come
back and coach in the Big 12. I grew up in Big 8 country in Kansas, and it was
just a dream of mine from the day that I knew I wanted to coach to come back
to the Big 12. I left a lot of people that think I am crazy. I left the Top 20
team, Top 25 team at Louisiana Tech, left All-American pointguard team that
returned 8 of their top 10, I think, this year. But, you know, I was looking
to the future. I think the future are the major conferences. I think if you
want to build a powerhouse that's going to be around for the next 10 to 15
years, that the Big 12 is a good place to start. It's not a good place to
start if you want to go go from last to first, I understand that, because we
have the got Hall of Fame coaches throughout. We have got All-American, Kodak
All-American players throughout. But you know what, we're going to show up
every night and we're going to give you our best every night and we're going
to represent Oklahoma State very well.



Q. Coach, Gary has not wasted any time getting A &M; competitive again to
where teams -- they really give people fits, obviously. Knowing what you have
there, I mean, do you see it as this season, you know, you all can be
competitive you can compete for the middle, for the top, what do you see as
realistic for this team?



COACH KURT BUDKE: I am not going to put any limitations on these young ladies.
We're picked 11th. We're going to show up and try to win every game. I think
that's what Gary did at Texas A&M; right away. Was they didn't win a whole lot
of games his first year but they made sure anybody that came into his house,
it was going to be a tough night for them. They didn't win very many of those
games, but they were close. We're going to try to make sure that we're close
and we have an opportunity to win at the end of the night. So the girls are
still getting to learn me and me them, and we're still trying to figure out
the correct system for this team. We're going to experiment a little bit in
the preseason games as far as the none conference games, and then once we get
into Big 12 play we hope that we have establish today where we can be
competitive night in, night out.



Q. What do you see as your biggest challenge this year?



COACH KURT BUDKE: Our biggest challenge, I think the biggest weakness of our
team is our team speed. Our team speed and quickness -- and you are in a
league of great athletes. So our biggest challenge I think is going to come
out and control the tempo. We have to have teams play the tempo that we're
comfortable with if we have a chance to win this year. If we can do that I
think we're big enough, strong enough to push around a lot of people. We're
going to have to do the little things better than they have ever done it
before. We're going to have be the first one diving on the floor, first one
taking charge, have our turnovers down every single night. Those are the
little things. If we can do those things, to give ourself a chance at the end,
I think we can overcome the team speed issue.



Q. How imperative is it for this team to get off to a quick start?



COACH KURT BUDKE: Well, I think that's important with any team. I really do.
This team did not have much success the last couple of years, so I hope in our
nonconference schedule that we can come out and show the people in Stillwater
that we're going to play hard, we're going to be competitive and we also know
how to win. I think we need to learn how to win in the nonconference games
because that's a tough thing to learn once you get into conference.



Q. Lori, talk about the differences under your new coach and go into more
detail about this Miss O.S.U., how did you win this?



LORI ALLEN: The difference is with this coach and the last coaching staff, I
have said this before, is it's again a discipline and attitude that has been
brought to the program. Cowgirl tradition, we had a big Cowgirl tradition in
the Big 8. We can be a huge force in the Big 12 and Coach Budke and his staff
brings that attitude and discipline that we're going to do the things the
right way and this is the way we're going to do them and we're going to do
them this way because that's the what it takes to win. We don't cut corners.
Everybody goes as hard as they can all the time. With Miss O.S.U., it starts
as an application process and there's preliminary and then the actual final
pageant. I wanted to do the Miss O.S.U. pageant because I feel everyone has
gifts and talents and sometimes we have to seek out opportunities to use those
to help other people and Miss O.S.U. title will get me in place that maybe
being a student athlete won't.



Q. I know we have talked a little bit about you sneaking in in some of Eddie
Sutton's practices and watching how they do things. The tradition that has
been built on the men's side, how much of that have you been able to draw to
the women's program to try and maybe get this program going like to that level
eventually?



COACH KURT BUDKE: Coach Sutton from day one has been there for us. He's been
there for me as a coach and my staff, his whole staff, Sean, James, Dicky,
everybody else, Jimmy, has been there for us. They welcome us into their
practices. I think I can learn something new every single day that I am out. I
have been doing this 20-something years now but I know if I go into his
practices and watch how they tweak one little drill that I have been doing for
15 years that can help us then I am going to take it. The thing is now this
isn't my first time around. I have beaten some teams before. I have beaten the
Penn States at Penn State in front of 11,000 and New Mexico in front of 15,000
at the pit. I have beaten Texas Tech twice. I know what it takes to win big-
time basketball games. I know the level of intensity it takes every single day
to win big-time basketball games. That's what we're trying to get across to
these girls. We're not there yet. They are trying and they are giving it their
best every single day but we talk about there's another level that they have
to get to if we're going to win in the Big 12. If Coach Sutton can help me
with a few ideas and I have told him he's welcome to come to our practice
every day too because as many times as what -- 19 wins away from 800 now I
think is what it is. Well, then I will sit down and listen to him all day long
if he will give me the time. We'll build a tradition here. We'll change this
program. We just asked people to be a little bit patient but we also ask them
to come out to the games an let's do it together.



Q. I know the last couple of years LA Tech when it came to the tournament you
weren't always real pleased with the seeding you all got. Do you I think it is
a fact that it's going to be the bigger conferences and even those powers that
maybe in other conferences are just not going to get that seeding when it
comes to tournament time?



COACH KURT BUDKE: Absolutely agree. I think the power conferences are going to
get the seeds. Last year's team we had a lot of injuries so we got the seed we
did deserve. Couple years before, we're 31-and-3, 29-and-3. Beating some great
teams on the road. Only lost to Duke and Connecticut, the Tennessee people
like that, and they just seed you at 6-and-8. I think the respect for the
power conferences is going to continue to grow. I think the division between
the power conferences and the rest of the mid majors and small major
conferences is getting wider and wider every single year. So I think you know,
you are going to look up this year you are going to see six, seven, maybe
eight teams out of this conference back in the N.C.A. tournament with good
seeds. I just wish we would have brought the piano so Lori could have played.
We can move this in the hall if you want to hear the song she won it with.

_

MODERATOR: What song did you win it with?

_

LORI ALLEN: Bumblbee by Jack Fina.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 20, 2005

  

### [LaMarcus Aldridge](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14213)

### [Brad Buckman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13722)

### [Daniel Gibson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13916)

### [P.J. Tucker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13721)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: Welcome the Longhorns from Texas university. Coach Barnes, if you
will, introduce your players, please.

_

COACH RICK BARNES: To my left here we have LaMarcus Aldridge, a sophomore from
Seagoville, Texas; nickname L. Train. We have Brad Buckman, from Austin,
Texas, a senior who goes by the name Dude. We have got Daniel Gibson from
Houston, Texas, goes by the name D-Gib. He's a sophomore. P. J. Tucker, from
Raleigh, North Carolina, junior, goes by the name of Tuck because he tucks a
lot of food away. Since we're the last group, I am sure you don't want a long
opening statement, so why don't we go right to questions.



Q. Your thoughts on this team, another week of practice has gone by?



COACH RICK BARNES: Well, I think that it's not -- I don't know about judging
it on the past week. I'd have to go back where we ended the season last year
and what took place right after we got back from the N.C.A.A. tournament, the
attitude that this group of guys started approaching this coming year with. We
had a good spring, a really good summer, had a great fall. With the new rules
of the N.C.A.A. we -- obviously practice has changed, we're allowed to have
the group in there for a couple of hours prior to the start of practice last
Friday night. I like the group. I think that these guys have been the core of
what we have tried to get done and they have shown some leadership and I think
they know as well as I do we can add Kenton Paulino to this group and the real
key to our success this year is going to be the way we develop our players
from 6 through 11 and the roles that those guys play.



Q. Can you kind of address the pre-season expectations that are already being
put on this group?



COACH RICK BARNES: I don't think that anyone can put expectations on us more
than what we put on ourselves. Our goals are lofty and they always will be and
we expect to have a great basketball team. Every year we start -- outside
expectation. We don't talk about it. I think it is a compliment to our program
and these players. We realize it's pre-season. We know we're going to have to
play a schedule that's going to be as tough as any schedule in the country.
We'll continue to work with the way that we're capable of, and guys will
continue to do what they are supposed to do. We think that every night we go
out we have got a chance.



Q. D-Gib, can you talk about J.D. Lewis and those other two guys, what you
think they are going to add to the team this year?



DANIEL GIBSON: Yeah, all those guys are in the gym working hard everyday. J.D.
has an incredible shot. I don't think there's anybody in the -- in the country
with a better looking shot than he has. A.J. and Craig, both of those guys are
awesome ball handlers, they are going to help us a lot in the back court as
far as just giving as you lot of depth. All of them are hard workers and
that's what Coach Barnes loves. I think we're going to be all right.



Q. Can you just talk about having B.J. and LaMarcus back this year and what
that will do to this team and how it will help you?



DANIEL GIBSON: Oh, I am loving every minute of it. Both of those guys they
have came back with a lot of hunger. You can see both of them every day in the
gym. It's like a little kid, with his first candy bar. They are just so happy
to just be back out there on the court. And I think all the rest of the
players are just feeding off the energy that they brought back to the team.
Experiencing it, a year without them last year, it really helped a lot of the
players gain a lot of experience just being out there without those two guys.
And with them back, I believe the game will be a lot easier and slow down for
them.



Q. Could you talk about your frustration with the injury and the long rehab
and when were you able to get back on the court? You said that was your
greatest moment.



LaMARCUS ALDRIDGE: It was very hard just watching the games and just seeing
the team, you know, struggle at times, but coming through in the end I just
felt like I could have just did -- I could have did anything just to help. I
wanted to but I couldn't even walk. It was out of the picture. It was
frustrating watching everything go by and I couldn't do anything. The rehab
was really, really hard because I had to sleep with my leg in this little
brace every night and I couldn't move and it was just really painful, but now
I am back and I am 100% and I am ready to go.



Q. When did you get back on the court? And isn't a hip injury or little old
guys?



LaMARCUS ALDRIDGE: It is for old guys, yeah, but I am an old guy now, I guess,
but I got back on the court in about mid-July. That's when I went to Nike camp
and I worked out with a couple of guys there.

COACH RICK BARNES: We did a DNA and he actually is 32. (Laughter).



Q. Rivalry is with Oklahoma in football. Wondering where that's headed in
basketball? Earlier today Coach Sampson was asked what it's going to take to
get to the top of the Big 12, and I think he said (inaudible) quit and I think
P.J. is probably going to class now. Maybe a small shot. Is that rivalry
brewing in basketball like it might be in football?



COACH RICK BARNES: I don't know if guys have to quit, but it does help that
P.J. is going to class. I will say that. It does help. (Laughter). But I think
the rivalry with Oklahoma has been a healthy rivalry. I think it's been good.
I think that the teams mirror each other in a lot of ways. I think that Kelvin
and I have similar philosophies, basketball-wise. I am obviously a better
looking guy than he is. If we play basketball he wasn't very good; but the
reason he does all the loose ball drills because that's how he had to get on
the court as a player. But if it got down to he and I playing, it won't be a
rivalry. To have a rivalry you have got to split some games and he would never
win a game from me. Believe me. Is that accurate P.J.?

P.J. TUCKER: No doubt about it. No doubt.

COACH RICK BARNES: What do you think?

DANIEL GIBSON: No question.

COACH RICK BARNES: I am not going to ask you, Brad, because I am not sure what
you will say (laughter).



Q. Are you ready to name your head coach (inaudible) now?



COACH RICK BARNES: If it goes well in the league, even though my son has never
shown any desire whatsoever to coach, in about -- he's getting ready to
graduate in December. In about four years if he doesn't have a job, I am going
to hire him. No matter how long I can stay at Texas it's a possibility. I
think it's great. When I look at Coach Knight and Pat and obviously Coach
Sutton and Sean, I mean, you're talking about two guys that have grown up at
the feet of two of the greatest coaches ever. It's just a natural progression.
I think, you know -- I think both of them -- the sad part about this is I
think both of those guys loved their kids so much I can see both of those guys
coaching for a long time, a lot longer than -- because today I don't think
there's a mandatory retirement age anyway and both of them love it so much. I
can see maybe stepping aside sooner than they want to just so their kids can
have a shot at it. I think it's great because I think that, again, both of
those guys, both Pat and Sean, they can leave now and go to other programs and
be very successful.



Q. LaMarcus, are you still having to do any kind of rehab at all? If you
didn't even know any better, would you have known that you hit your hip,
judging the way it feels now?



LaMARCUS ALDRIDGE: I don't feel anything. If anything I feel stronger and
better now. My legs have got a lot stronger and I don't have any side effect,
no soreness, no pain, no anything.

COACH RICK BARNES: Would somebody ask P.J. and Brad a question so I can make
it worthwhile bringing them up here.

BRAD BUCKMAN: I like to be quiet, doesn't worry about it.

COACH RICK BARNES: P.J., how does it feel going to class today? Would you
explain the difference in this year and last year?

P.J. TUCKER: Oh, man.

COACH RICK BARNES: I am serious.

P.J. TUCKER: It feels good, feels good in class. A lot more people want to
help you now, no doubt about that.



Q. When we talked to you in Austin, you mentioned about what you went through.
It was a learning experience that made you stronger. Elaborate on what you did
go through last year and how that might motivate you more on the court this
year?



P.J. TUCKER: I think it all came down to after the meeting coach made me get
on the Stairmaster about two days and I sweated for about a week after that,
so I really had no choice, but it really -- like I said, really just a case
where maturity level has to step in, after years and years of bad habits,
stuff built up. It's time for a change and, you know, came at a bad time. But
whenever it was good, really helped me out a lot. These guys and coach staff,
everybody stood by me and helped me out in all the times. But I really took
the opportunity and time to get better in school and to get better as a
basketball player. So it all came out to be actually a positive thing.

COACH RICK BARNES: Bradley, could you use the word "dude" in a sentence?

BRAD BUCKMAN: Absolutely not. (Laughs).

COACH RICK BARNES: Brad, you are a senior. You have been at the program now
for four years. What is going to be the difference in your mindset this year
as opposed to last year?

BRAD BUCKMAN: Obviously I have matured a lot, so...

COACH RICK BARNES: Thank goodness.

BRAD BUCKMAN: Consistency will be my problem this year to fix. And in order to
be better than last year, my consistency level has got to be a lot better.
That's one thing I am going to focus on, doing it from game to game. I can't
be having big games against Oklahoma State and not doing very good against
Colorado. So I am going to have to try and work on that this year.



Q. Talk about how you see you and LaMarcus working together in tandem?



BRAD BUCKMAN: It's actually LaMarcus that will do all the work. I will just
throw him the ball. That's how I see it. No, it's great to have a guy like
this on your team. It makes it a lot easier for you to played and it makes you
look a lot better. If you can get a couple of passes to the guy, get a couple
of stats on the boards with assists, I will work off of him. I think it's a
good tandem between me and him. It going to be a tough, tough court if you
have got to play me and him every day.



Q. You kind of for many reasons had to shoulder a larger burden last year
(inaudible) you kind of score this year. Are you going to concentrate more?
Are you looking to distribute this year? Is that kind of the route you want to
go, kind of be the passer and let these other guys take a load off?



DANIEL GIBSON: Yeah, I will just say that I am going to focus a lot more on
just basically just trying to make the game easier for my teammates. A lot of
times with P.J. and LaMarcus out there they make it easier for me so I can
just return the favor and just try to get them to open looks give them the
easiest shot possible and try to be a leader. That's basically going to be my
main focus this year.

BRAD BUCKMAN: I will enjoy being on the court while these guys are doing it.
That's what I am looking forward to.

COACH RICK BARNES: My closing statement would be after being with you all this
afternoon, if we decide to stop coaching and stop playing, we think we can get
a job doing your job because the questions were outstanding. We appreciate it.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Clent Stewart](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13900)

### [Schyler Thomas](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14249)

### [Jim Wooldridge](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13703)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: It's good to be here, good to get started. Here we go.



Q. Talk a little bit about -- you talked about this team, the expectations for
it, what you see. What are some of the things that you have seen that maybe we
can't that tells you that this is really going to be maybe your best team?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Now, what can I see that you can't?



Q. Right.



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, I am with them every day. I have pointed out
several things through the fall and perhaps the summer as we visit about this
team that I like. We're more athletic. We have talked about that. You are
going to see that, though. They are a receptive group. I think we have built
some early season chemistry that's conducive to success. I just personally
like this team. This team has a different feel to it than perhaps any team I
have had at Kansas State, and so I guess if you jumble all that together we
think we can be a better team. Obviously we have games and practices ahead of
us an challenge that we don't know about that we'll have to reckon with. That
will determine what we're. But right now I think we have got a group of guys
that can win ball games.



Q. What do you mean by different feel?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, I mentioned the chemistry. I think we have more
camaraderie. I think we have more receptiveness. These guys even mentioned on
the way down that. I think in a lot of ways maybe we were reliant on Jeremiah
to make a play and bail you out and whatnot. I think these guys these guys see
more balance and more ability outside of one spot on the floor that they can
make plays.



Q. Looking down the roster, not a lot of freshmen. Sophomore means
upperclassmen nowadays. Do you plan on using your experience?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: We're going to use our best players and whether that be
we have got two freshmen, Clent is a sophomore. We do have quite a few --
David Hoskins is a sophomore. We have a heavy junior class. We're going to
play our best guys, whoever those guys are, whether they be young or that, you
know, kids in that junior class or seniors as Schyler is, we'll go with
whoever.



Q. Could you address a little bit what Coach was talking about last year maybe
watching Jeremiah and this year how it's going to be more balanced?



CLENT STEWART: Last year I think we were more reliant on one person which is
Jeremiah. This year in the practices you see really everybody, the talent
level is a lot more talent on the team and everybody can go and make a play.
It's more we're playing off of each other instead of playing off of one person
which is really fun. We're looking forward to it?



Q. Talk about this, anybody in particular or more than one person that's kind
of stepping forward to be the vocal leader on this team?



SCHYLER THOMAS: I think it's kind of both me and Clent have stepped up a lot.
Just trying to be leaders on the team and but it's pretty much a team effort
like we have done a lot of things like Coach said for camaraderie and
everybody is getting into it instead of just one person being the person we
look to for leadership. It's kind of everybody. But me and Clent both being
point guards, we kind of taken over that role.

CLENT STEWART: Like Scott said, like Schy said, myself and him really have
kind of taken over that role, but this is a whole team effort and when one guy
goes and makes a play in practice everybody is clapping him and telling him
good job and stuff. So it is not just one guy that has to vocally lead the
team. It's everybody that's stepping up and saying something and making sure
everybody is on the same Page.



Q. Talk about the new guys coming on the team this year, talk about how they
have looked? We have heard from Jim a little bit about them. Talk about
strengths, weaknesses what we can expect from them?



CLENT STEWART: We got several new guys in all of them bring something
different to the table. David Hoskins, strong he can play inside and outside.
Mario Taybron is a very good dribbler, he can shoot the ball and score. Akeem
Wright, he's a great passer. Really -- great passer. Two freshmen Delivez and
Darren, both of them are -- Darren is a four man, he can step out and shoot
the ball a lot, and Delivez is awesome offensive rebounder. All of them bring
a little something different. We're going to need all that come season time,
something different to the table. All of them are looking really well.

SCHYLER THOMAS: I think all the new guys we added are all athletic and it's
like the new shape of our team is athletic. We'll be able to do a lot more
things than we have done in the past.



Q. You have got a bunch of new faces that are going to need to play a role.
You have also got some continuity in Clent and two other starters back. If
they make the natural progress that you would expect how big a plus would that
be for you?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, it's critical that they do exactly what you just
described there. I think for any team you know, to play well and have a
successful season, the returning players have got to show improvement. They
have got to show progress. We saw it year ago with Lance Harris who really
came on and played extremely well from one year to the next and Cartier, I
think got better and better even through having to deal with some injuries
that happened during the year, but I think he was a better player. We think
the same thing is going to happen this year. Clent and Lance and Cartier
played the most minutes on this returning on this team this year. We suspect
and would expect that all three of them take a big step forward and improve
their play and help blend what they have already gone through with new players
that are going to go through it for the first time.



Q. Talk about what Coach talked about a different feel in this team? Can you
sense that? What is it that you guys sense in that aspect?



CLENT STEWART: Different feel is more athleticism. Everybody on the team can
run, quickness is there, athleticism, everybody can guard and we're getting up
and guarding a lot harder in practice this year. You can see it is a lot more
competitive I'm on the perimeter. Everybody wants to play and everybody is
going to get to go out there during practice and it's a lot more fun also
having the opportunity to get out and push the ball a lot more and kick it up
to the wink guys who can dribble who can handle and who can rebound and score.
We're really looking forward to it.

SCHYLER THOMAS: We lost Jeremiah last year and we lost a couple of other guys,
it's a different feel is we got some new guys in here and we got a new offense
and just a new style overall. So I think a lot of the old guys are responding
to it. The new guys are coming in and they're picking it up right away also. I
think everybody is just excited for the season to see what we can do and we
think that we can shake things up this year. I think that attributes to the
new feel that we have here.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Jeff Hawkins](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14243)

### [Christian Moody](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13899)

### [Bill Self](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13713)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: Welcome, Coach. Make a few opening comments, please.

_

COACH BILL SELF: Good morning. With me today is Christian Moody, senior from
Asheville, North Carolina, and Jeff Hawkins, a senior from Kansas City. I
think that we're all very excited just like every staff and every team in
America right now to get started. I certainly feel like there's a lot of
unknowns with our ballclub that will certainly, through time, the next two,
three weeks kind of become knowns for us. I certainly like our team. We're
very young. We're inexperienced. With the exception of these two, we don't
return anybody with -- that would be considered experienced at the major
college level, but I think they are very talented. They are long. They are
athletic, and I think they will have a very fun year for us.

_

MODERATOR: Questions from the floor.

_ 

Q. With such a young team, what would you identify as your major strengths and
weaknesses?



COACH BILL SELF: I think major strengths and these guys, these guys have
really seen our team more than me because throughout the -- I have only seen
them really for four days for the most part. I think we have some guys with
some pretty good feel. We have some natural athletic ability. We're deeper. I
think those would be strengths. And weaknesses, there's plenty. We don't know
what we're doing yet. Definitely we're not very sound. We're probably not as
tough as we should be yet. But I think there's a chance that those things
could come, come real fast. Certainly not a perfect team by any means, but
it's going to be a pretty good team we feel.



Q. So much tradition at your school. Do you feel like a little bit pressured
for everybody to step in so many holes to fill?



CHRISTIAN MOODY: I definitely feel that pressure of trying to fill that, those
spots that guys from the past have done a great job of doing. And I think that
this year we just -- I mean, Jeff and myself and another senior, Steve Vinson
and Moulaye Niang, we're excited about having a chance to be leaders on such a
young team and with the youth, I think, that it's just a great chance to
become a team that Coach Self has put together and the team that he knows we
can beat.



Q. Would you talk about just what you have seen of your freshmen class so far,
if they can possibly live up to the publicity that they made?



COACH BILL SELF: These guys would agree, all four individually are very good
and they all do something different. Mario is a very quick, great anticipator,
scoring pointguard that, you know, is still a ways away just because he has
got to get used to playing against competition. Julian Wright is kind of a do
everything guy but is still a ways away. Same with Micah and same with
Brandon. I think all four have shown moments where you can say, man, it's
really going to kick in and now they are on their way. But two good days, one
average day, one bad day, they are still freshmen and inexperienced. But I
think the thing that I have seen is they like each other. They share it. They
don't have egos, none of them right now. These guys will know better than me
in the locker room, but they are going to be a good group, but one thing about
people have talked about our freshmen, they are going to be good, but our
returning players are much better than what they have been allowed to be so
far through playing time. I was thinking last year -- last year we were here
and I think we brought in 43 points and 19 rebounds and 12 assists a game
sitting up here. This year, we obviously don't have that type of returning
production. So I really feel that the young guys will be good, but one reason
they will be good is because there's a lot of competition for those guys to
earn minutes.



Q. From the time you have spent so far with the freshmen, have they done some
unique things either how high they jump or the way they play and pick up
games? Can you share some stories about stuff you saw that you really couldn't
believe and can you beat them out for a starting spot?



JEFF HAWKINS: I mean, each and every one of them has done something. For one,
Julian is unbelievable athlete. I mean, he's a high flier, he just -- he plays
above the rim. One time he did some 360 dunk that I can't really explain. I
still don't know how to explain it 'til this day. I it was unbelievable. They
all have like real great knowledge of the game and they all do, you know, some
exciting things.

CHRISTIAN MOODY: I know that dunk that Hawk is talking about, Julian had, it
was an incredible -- it was a fast break and Julian just -- he went up and I
can't remember who he dunked on, but whoever he dunked on will remember it for
a while (laughter). But I have also been just in awe of all the freshmen
shooting ability. All of them can shoot. Brandon has got a great dribble, pull
up jumper and Mario and Mike have been real impressive from outside the arc. I
just, I mean, at late night you got a taste of how Micah can play and just
been impressed with all the freshmen.



Q. Can you beat them out?



CHRISTIAN MOODY: Fortunately they are playing the guard and forward positions,
so...

COACH BILL SELF: That's 'til today, Christian. No, these guys both will be
tough to beat out, to be real honest. Because Jeff, I really feel Jeff is a
really, really, really good player that came in the same time Aaron Miles did
and just kind of backed up Aaron. And Aaron is very worthy of playing minutes
and that kind of stuff. But Jeff is a good player that people haven't seen
yet. He will be tough to beat out. Of course everybody saw what Christian did
last year. Those guys have to be beaten out as opposed to them beating out the
young guys.



Q. You inherited a lot of good players when you got to Kansas. Maybe the road
is a little rockier than you thought it might be. Talk about the process of
getting this program to the point you want it to be at?



COACH BILL SELF: I don't think the road is that rocky. We finished 2-and-1 in
the league. I mean it's not terrible. We were 20-and-1 last year, rank No. 2
in America for like 16, 15 weeks. We finished poorly last year. I think a lot
of it was due to the things that we couldn't control such as health. But
certainly the way the year finished last year with Bucknell, I think, put a
very sour taste in everybody's mouth. I think it gives everybody the
impression that we didn't do that well. You can't have great years unless you
perform in March, in my opinion, but you can have good years. We had a good
year last year. I don't think we should apologize for winning the league or
finishing second the year before and going into the lead 8. With that being
said, I like your point because there's something about newness. There's
something about youthful enthusiasm. There's something about guys not knowing
any other way. I love coaching the guys that we have had, but those guys knew
a different way to do it, was very successful doing it that way because of all
the talent and the great job the previous staff did. Now we don't know any
better and I think that makes it easier to coach in a lot of ways.



Q. Easier or more difficult today to win with a young team and why do you
think it might be easier or the same or more difficult to win with a young
group?



COACH BILL SELF: I think it's easier to win with young guys than it was ten
years ago because college basketball is younger in general. There's less
great, you know, All-American-type players that are juniors and seniors
playing today because they opt for the draft. And the other thing is with the
travel schedule that these guys have in high school through A ball, through
different things, I think these guys are beyond their years, more so than they
would be back in the early '90s or even late '90s. That doesn't mean it makes
it easy. I think the best team, you know, if Oklahoma State had, what, five or
six fifth-year seniors last year. We had four seniors last year. I think
that's still easier, but I don't think -- I think that's the minority in
today's game with really good programs.



Q. You mentioned that you guys will play 80 games in summer and travel and
they are more ready, but with that being said, do you spend a lot of time with
some of these guys that have picked up some bad habits in the summer where
they can just roll out a ball and go play, teach them some stuff?



COACH BILL SELF: Just teach is not the right word. We have to teach them the
way we want them to do things. I think everybody has bad habits. When you
don't have coaches in the gym with them and they are just playing pick-up we
develop bad habits. My point was being more ready, they are more worldly. They
have seen things. They have played against other players, they know how hard
you have to work, things like that today I think maybe than, say, ten years
ago. But certainly you have got to break them of the things that you don't
like them doing and I think that's very prevalent with all freshmen. But I do
think they are beyond their years from a maturity standpoint and competition
standpoint because of things they are able to do now in high school that they
weren't doing 10, 15 years ago.



Q. Coach mentioned kind of a refreshing new add to this year, you played those
other guys for what, ten years, seems like, has this been kind of a rebirth as
it were for you as well?



CHRISTIAN MOODY: Definitely, but like Coach said, that excitement of having
the young guys and them -- and everyone on the outside looking in, not really
knowing how good they are, I mean, it's something that for me and I know for
Jeff is just -- it's exciting to know how much this group wants to learn; how
much this group wants to just take in from the coaching staff and knowing that
they can -- that they can just -- they can be great players and -- that's the
excitement of having such a young group.

_

MODERATOR: Okay gentlemen. Thank you.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Kiera Hardy](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13848)

### [Connie Yori](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13896)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Nebraska to the podium. Coach, if you'd like
to introduce your player, make a couple of opening comments.

_

COACH CONNIE YORI: This is Kiera Hardy, had a great year last year as a
sophomore, first time on Big 12. A young woman that we're expecting big things
from this year at both ends. Notice I said both ends. We we're in a building
process and we feel like we have made progress and we're at the point right
now where we feel like we can compete in this league and on any given night
beat anybody but then of course, on any given night they can beat us. We're
excited about where we're right now as a program and the direction our program
has moved. And when we took the program over three years ago, we knew it was
going to be a process, and definitely we wish we could wave a magic wand and
fix it all overnight, but it's going to take sometime, but we're moving in the
right direction.

_

MODERATOR: Questions?

_ 

Q. What did you work on the most this summer and both ends of the court, could
you expand on that?



KIERA HARDY: Like she said, hard work, worked on getting stronger, and pre-
season worked on a lot of defensive drills and that's something that this year
I am really going to focus on being more of a complete player, like she said
on both ends of the court.



Q. Talk about Kiera has great ability to create offense through defense but I
am assuming there are other elements of her defensive game you are wanting to
see an elevation in. Also a lot of times the summer between sophomore and
junior years is a huge improvement period for division players, have you seen
that from her?



COACH CONNIE YORI: We have seen Kiera improve each year, made a huge step from
her senior of high school to where she was as a freshman and contributed as a
backup player that year and last year obviously made a huge impact on our
program and to be named -- as a sophomore being named the first team all Big
12 after coming off a year where she was just a baby in the game, prior to
that, that was a great step for her. Now we'd like to see her do things that
get her teammates involved more, play, play defense at a higher level, rebound
better for us, move without the ball. I think that will be a key for her,
people are -- our opponents are going to pay a lot of attention to her going
into games. It's going to be important that she gets the ball in her hands. In
order to do that she's going to have to be better at moving without the
basketball. There's a lot of things she knows that she needs to work on. She
is very committed to those ideas and she has done a great job in her pre-
season practices, you know, working towards making those things happen.



Q. You have seen definite improvement each year that you have been at
(inaudible) do you think you can continue that going upward or take the next
step this year?



COACH CONNIE YORI: Well, the pre-season poll pick is fifth, as I said. That
doesn't mean anything, doesn't give us anymore Ws. All it does is, like I
said, get me closer to being fired. So we're in a process -- like I said,
we're in a building process. We feel like we have taken, you know, baby steps
or bigger each year and we have got to trust that this process will work. We
had a plan in place when I took the job three plus years ago and we're on
track. And we just need to keep moving in that direction and our players have
bought in 100% to what we're doing as coaches and that really makes it easy.



Q. I am sure you have been disappointed with the stretch run of the season the
last two years, but you have got junior college players that now have a year
of experience. You have got players like Kiera who are now upperclass players.
Do you think that could make a big difference in changing your fate down the
stretch run?



COACH CONNIE YORI: There's no question that's a great question, that we need
play better in February and I think there's a lot of factors that go into
that. But staying healthy and staying motivated, you know, and being
physically and mentally sharp. And I have thought a lot about it why we have
struggled in February the last two years, and I think it is really important
that we give our players proper rest and make sure that they are fresh both
mentally and physically. I feel like we really pushed our players very hard
the last couple of years to get to the point where we can just be competitive.
And in doing so, we ran out of gas, so to speak, in each of those two years.
We hope that with a little bit more experience and kids that have been through
the process and who have practiced and understand drills and understand what
we're trying to do, hopefully we can shorten our practices in the long run
which will help us in the long run.



Q. Kiera, talk about that too, finishing strong?



KIERA HARDY: By everybody being a year older, I think that's going to help us
a lot. We know what it takes to win and we know what it's takes to finish
stronger. By losing the last stretch of games, you know, really opened our
eyes and what we need to do and work on as a team and I think this year we're
going to be better and finish stronger.



Q. I think you were the highest picked team in the north in the pre-season
poll. Is that good or is it --



COACH CONNIE YORI: That's what I am saying somebody is trying to get my job.
(Laughter). No, I think we feel good about that in some ways because I do
think that from the standpoint that our players know that their hard work, you
know, we're going the right way, but yet like I said it doesn't give us
anymore Ws. I think probably more than anything, you look at the teams in the
north that were picked below us, traditional powers in Iowa State, in Kansas
State, I have a ton of respect for both of those coaches as well as the
programs they have put together, and those are -- I think both of those teams
could have definitely been picked above us. I think it was a tough year to
pick. In the north you have two of the traditional powers who are losing, a
number of their players and then you have a program like ourselves and -- who
has a lot of kids returning. I think that's why we were picked where we were.
I think it's nothing more than that.



Q. Kiera, Coach was talking about the large improvement you have made even
since you were senior in high school. Talk about what have been the things you
have done best and what has been the hardest part of that improvement process
to get to where you are now?



KIERA HARDY: Probably one of the things that have made the biggest difference
is conditioning, being committed to running and working hard and coming into
workouts trying to get better. Also having positive teammates around me, like
enjoying conditioning, not seeing it as much of a chore, but -- or not just
trying to get through it but everybody working hard to make each other better.

COACH CONNIE YORI: She squatted 300 pounds and bench pressed 180. For somebody
who was 140 pounds, that's rather incredible. And it's a huge, huge jump from
where she was as a senior in high school. She almost weighed -- you almost
weighed 300 when you were a senior in high school.

KIERA HARDY: (Laughter).

COACH CONNIE YORI: That's where 300 came into mind.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Erica Hallman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14233)

### [Bonnie Henrickson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13895)

### [Crystal Kemp](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13846)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH BONNIE HENRICKSON: We're excited about the growth and progress with our
returning players and certainly in our recruiting efforts. We're anxious to
begin as we have started practice and put those pieces together. We have 6
returning players, 6 new players, 5 scholarship and one walk on. And right now
we're excited about the chemistry that's evolved, that's taken place since we
started class, and putting some pieces together that are new and exciting.
We'll depend greatly on these two for their leadership and consistency
throughout the year, to improve in what we believe is arguable the most
difficult and best conference in America for women's basketball.



Q. Last year you guys -- there weren't a lot of rotations or substitutions
because there weren't too many kids. You didn't have the opportunity to do all
the things that your coaching staff probably could have implemented if you had
more bodies. Talk about from the guard position and from the post position how
different will Kansas be this year in terms of having those extra bodies and
how does that help each of you two individually?



CRYSTAL KEMP: I think it's definitely a plus for us. We have 5 post players,
three -- well, two new ones and three returners. It's definitely added help
for us who have been in there to provide experience for those who are going to
come off the bench. It's definitely good for me in particular because I know
that I can come off and get a quick rest and knowing that the players that
coach have come in keep it consistent to what we're trying to do with the game
plan.

ERICA HALLMAN: I feel like having extra bodies is always a good thing. Me and
Crystal, we don't have to go out and play 35, 40 minutes a game and the people
that's going to come off the bench are not going to -- we're still going to
have a good team out there when they are on the floor too.



Q. What you worked on in your game for your senior year, what you worked on?



CRYSTAL KEMP: Being more aggressive, more facing the basket things, of course
going to the right, conditioning, everything, pretty much to make a more well-
rounded player.



Q. Coach, how much different is it having one full year under your belt going
into your second season?



COACH BONNIE HENRICKSON: A big difference. As a team, we have talked as a
staff, we have talked about where we were a year ago, still at the point a
year ago trying to get to know each other, understand what they need from us
and for them to understand what we expected and understand just how much hard
work there was in front of us to accomplish what we felt like we needed to
accomplish. And take great pride and baby steps we feel like we have been able
to do that. Very proud but certainly very hungry to be wetter. There's a lot
of excitement, enthusiasm for the growth we have had, but there isn't any
complacency certainly by any means that we certainly have not arrived. And we
have made progress, but there's a lot of room for us to improve, and there was
a year ago and there still is right now. We want to manage the excitement and
enthusiasm for our growth and progress but also as silly as it sounds, to
still remain hungry and determination to be better than what people think
we're right now. This time of year, that's when you get so much feedback about
what everyone else things but ultimately when we huddle up it's most important
what the people in that huddle understand and expect. We feel like we have
raised the expectation of the players individually for ourselves and I think
as a team and as a program. That's what we wanted to do in a year to change
the culture in the program and change the culture around the program. In a
year we have done that. You don't do that without kids that are committed, and
these two at the table have made a commitment to the team and our program.
They have got to be solid all year. Pressure for them, they have got to be
better than they were last year. I think both could be better in fewer
minutes. I think Crystal is a better 28-minute kid than a 35-minute kid.
That's not a knock on her; that's understanding the flow of the game and how
we want to play in this league night in, night out, playing a ranged team and
playing in different arenas as far as crowd sport; that we need to give those
kids a little bit of a blow. And for Erica not only to get off the floor a
little bit to play her most natural position, which is on the wing and either
the two or the three. We have got some young kids that are going to play well
for her. But their work ethic hasn't changed. They work right now like they
are having to play 35 minutes a game. I think that's important for us.



Q. When you guys came in as freshmen, you probably had no idea what was in
front of you. It was an O-and-16 Big 12 season. (Inaudible) talk about I guess
the journey and some of the tough times you have been through, obviously
changing coaching staff but also what kind of leaders that makes you guys as
seniors which you didn't have when you were freshmen?



CRYSTAL KEMP: It's definitely been tough, especially since our freshmen year.
But I think since then we have definitely had good leaders and those even
between the team who wants to go out there and be hungry. Our freshman team
was to come back in and get back. I think this is definitely the year to push
us a little bit further. As far as us finishing 6, that's just how we
finished.

ERICA HALLMAN: Coming in as freshmen the program was down a lot. I think we
have helped to kind of bring it back up but last year we were freshmen again
and it was a growing experience. But I think after a year under our belt with
her we have gained some confidence and some experience and we hope to open up
the door for the teams after us.



Q. How do you think Shaquina can help your team?



COACH BONNIE HENRICKSON: Shaquina, she brings tremendous athleticism for those
of you -- she was the National Junior College Player of the Year having won a
National Championship. She brings that type of winning, that type of attitude
to our program. She brings tremendous athleticism. She is a young lady who
understands the game having played for -- I think it was arguably one of the
best junior college coaches in the country, Lynn Larson at Central Arizona.
She has athleticism to play the style we want as far as pushing it from
baseline to baseline. She's a pointguard who can get numbers and when the
pointguard runs, wings run. Right now you can see that in practice already.
That our pace has improved even off of a score. But I think definitely she has
an opportunity to be awfully good defender, whether that's on the ball or in
the passing lane because she's -- if we understand football, has got good
closing speed. She can get a pass down that might be a little bit too long or
one that you might not think it is too long, she should e able to get into the
passing lane. I like her respect for the senior class, but also I like the
fact that she has confidence to come in and communicate very clearly, I am
here to help us win, I am not here to live up to any expectation, any title,
any tag somebody put behind my name, we don't refer to her that anymore really
when we introduce her. We don't say that that's what her title -- or that she
won that award last year because I don't need for her to do that. I need for
her to lead this team. She understands that she has got quality players around
her that will make her a better player.



Q. Do you consider her the most important piece of the puzzle for being
successful this year?



COACH BONNIE HENRICKSON: I think Shaq will play a part in it. I think Ivana
Catic, the pointguard position, Serbian freshmen, is a very dynamic player,
tremendous leadership. You can play those two at the same time. If they are in
together, Ivana would play the point and Shaq would go to the two. That's not
a knock on Shaq; that's how much of a presence Ivana as a freshman pointguard
has. I think those are two pretty big pieces. But we got another Serbian post
player with skill. We have got 5 scholarship kids, and where we are right now
the three seniors have got to be better than they were last year. And of those
five, two of those -- two kids every night that are solid. Doesn't have to be
the same two; they can take turns at it, which most freshmen do. If we can get
three or four to play well on a night, then we have got a chance to be awfully
good. Right now we're going to need at least two of those kids to perform well
for us to be successful in this league.



Q. You talked about Shaq's winning attitude. When you take over a program
that's been down a little bit, how do you -- what steps do you take to instill
that attitude back into the program and when did you start to see that with
this team?



COACH BONNIE HENRICKSON: We actually, believe it or not, we had met early last
year, we had a team meeting, talked about goals, and it was very clear from
the group that was returning that they expected to be successful, if you
listened to their expectations for the year. So as a staff we walked away and
thought, Do they really have an understanding? We were taken back, quite
honestly, about some of their goals. Some of weren't realistic and some pretty
realistic, the two at the table were pretty realistic, but certainly very
optimistic. So in starting the year it was clear that they expected to win.
Our biggest challenge was, okay, do you understand how to win? What does it
take to be successful, the competitiveness, the discipline, competitiveness,
the everyday grind to be successful? But knowing that going in, that's why we
go to Minnesota and we're up 19 to 4 because they expect to be successful.
They never went in and played not to lose. They played to win every single
night. So Shaq's mentality and her confidence really blends pretty well with
this group even though she's achieved at the level she played last year the
highest honors as far as winning a National Championship, that just adds to
the self-confidence and the team confidence right now that we really try to
carry over from last year. So believe it or not she is not the only one in
that group that believes that we can be successful and that we can be better
and a whole lot better. Right now I think she has joined in with this group of
seniors that believe they have a chance to be difference makers in the program
and they should believe that. She believes the same thing they do.



Q. For several seasons Kansas was really hurt by its lack of ability to shoot
the three-pointer on the same level that most of the top Big 12 competitors
did. Is having your two -- Erica was your top 3-point shooter. Is she going to
be even more free to be your 3-point weapon with additional help at guard?



COACH BONNIE HENRICKSON: I think for us having Erica just being a second-year
player into the program, sophomore as you heard her say earlier, but really a
senior, last year a very big portion of the season was teaching her how to be
a pointguard. And then once she learned how to be a pointguard and run the
team, then it was how can we get her some shots. She will get more 3s and more
shots earlier because of those two things. She is now second year in the
program. Understands the system, and now we can run -- we actually put a lot
of things in towards the second half of the year to get her some shots at the
point. We changed who initiated the offense at times. We got things in place
and we will add to create some more scoring opportunities for her. What is
nice about Erica is she can create a shot for someone else too. She has got
that uncanny ability to get into the -- make a play and get into the paint and
make a play, and then she's got some 3-point shooters on the wing with her,
Kaylee Brown in the senior class that she can kick it to. Some of these young
kids shoot it pretty well.



Q. Can you talk about your nonconference schedule, talk about why your home
games are --



COACH BONNIE HENRICKSON: We play 21 games at home. We would have played 19 but
New Orleans tournament obviously for reasons that we all know we won't be
going to New Orleans, so we're going to host that tournament. Larry Keeting
(phonetic), in the back of the room, is an administrator that everyone in this
league should want to hire because he does the scheduling for us. With the
commitment from Lou Perkins (phonetic) to give us the chance to play at home,
play in Allen Fieldhouse. I think right now -- we'll grow and we'll play on
the road a little bit more, and we have already talked about that as our
recruiting classes improve, our schedule, strength of schedule, those things
will improve. It's important for us right now to learn how to win, be
successful, gain some momentum in the program and we certainly think
believing, having the opportunity to play in Allen Fieldhouse as much as we
can will enhance our chances. That's a commitment by our administration. I
think we're the envy of most programs right now. I get a lot of phone calls
and emails, harassing emails from my colleagues in this business how on earth
did that happen. That's commitment and goes back to the reason that myself and
our staff chose to come to Kansas, the commitment by our administration. Kills
our frequent flier miles though.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Billy Gillispie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13712)

### [Joseph Jones](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13903)

### [Acie Law IV](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15070)

### [Chris Walker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15069)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: Happy to be here. Billy Gillispie. Texas A&M;
basketball. I am joined by Joseph Jones, Chris Walker and Acie Law. Just a
couple of comments. He said that we're ready for A&M; basketball. I hope that
A&M; basketball is ready for us this year. I think that we're going to be. I
think we're heading in the right direction. We had a fun year last year. We
established a few things as far as getting our program off to building the
program back to what we need to build it to. I think we're on the right track.
We have a long, long way to go, but I do think we had a good start to get
going.

_

THE MODERATOR: Okay. We'll take questions from the floor.

_ 

Q. Acie, what was the biggest thing or toughest thing as far as getting
feeling going? As you look toward last year, reflecting on last year, what was
the toughest thing as far as getting the winning, you know, going again?



ACIE LAW: I think it was developing a work ethic. I mean because coming in at
my freshman year, I don't think I was on my game. My sophomore year I think
developing a lot coming in every day and practice and coming every day and
practice. Developing as a team and get better. I think that was the toughest
thing to work hard every today to bring it every day.

COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: If you yell at them, they respond better. They're used
to it better.



Q. Coach, do you speak with Lithuanian and talk about the recruitment of that
guy better than you envisioned?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: He is off to a good start. I think sometimes foreign
players to the United States get labeled, a lot of people will say that most
of those guys are kind of soft. Very, very, very skilled and kind of soft. He
is definitely not a soft guy. He's been in the States for a couple of years.
He is a really, really, really tough guy. He is struggling right now just like
every new player across America I am sure is. As far as trying to adjust to
practice and the speed of the game, physicalness of the game, those kinds of
things. He has got to make a major impact for us this year. He is a lot better
than we thought. We thought he was pretty good, but I think he is going to be
a very, very good Big 12 player. As far as his language, he speaks as well as
most of the players on our team and I hope that doesn't disrespect anyone on
our team. He really has mastered the language. He is a great student. He is
eager every single day to be here in the United States and he is really
excited about the opportunity he has to play. So he is a unique individual.



Q. Bill, what kind of impact could his presence have on Joseph this season?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: This year? What will it have?



Q. Yeah.



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: I think that he is not the only guy that we have that
is going to make it probably a little easier for Joseph. I think that last
year Chris did an unbelievable job being a powerless forward 6'2 1/12" or 6'3"
or whatever. He started out 6' 5" and now he is about 6'2" because he got
banged on so much. But Chris was able to shoot the ball and spread the defense
out at the four spot. What I think is really going to help Joseph a lot is
going to reduce the banging that Joseph took because Joseph had to bang the
biggest guy on defense. He got banged by the biggest guy when we were on
offense. So I do think that they're going to have to -- it's going to change a
little bit. I think he will be a very, very good defender for us, very good
interior defender. And he along with some other players on our team, I think
are going to be much bigger and I think it is really going to reduce the wear
and tear it is going to take on Joseph, so I really do think it's going to be
a positive for us.



Q. Last year you got a starting five set pretty early so much more depth this
year, characterize your depth and how that might place with competition for
starting roles?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: Well, we really had a starting four last year. That's
when Chris really emerged. We had four guys that we're going to start for the
most part and nobody else is doing very good at the four spot, so we just told
Chris that he is going to be the guy. Once you got in there, he wouldn't turn
loose of the starting spot. This year I think we have a lot better depth, but
all our depth is going to be very inexperienced, so hopefully these
experienced guys will bring those inexperienced guys along. They're going to
put those guys in a position of where they can learn on the run a little bit,
run on the fly, and hopefully those inexperienced guys are going to continue
to grow and learn to where they're going to be able to make a difference in
our team. Just because you have more numbers or maybe you recruited to what I
think is fairly well, it doesn't mean that they're going to be able to make
impacts in the conference such as the big 12. So hopefully these guys have too
grow up. Last year, you know, Joseph didn't have the opportunity to come along
slowly. Dominique Kirk was put in the situation where it was probably too much
for him too soon. But that way the roster dictated we had to do things. I
think we do have leeway now do have some experience, some guys that understand
what we're going to try to do, so some of those guys are probably going to
come along a little bit more slowly. A guy like Eddie Smith. He's got one year
to go. I mean he is a junior college transfer. He's only got one year. We have
to have improved play in side from Anatanas Kalaliaskas and some of those
other guys. So even though we have some experience, we want them to contribute
fairly early in our season.



Q. Billy, who takes Antoine's spot and how do you replace what he did last
year?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: Nobody, and we probably can't replace Antoine. Antoine
every knows he was a really good offense player. Everyone knows -- I think he
turned into as good of a defense perimeter player in the conference and one of
the best in the country. That's what everyone talks about in the NBA now is
how hard he works and how well he plays defense. When they were talking about
drafting that's what everyone is talking about. He can really guard two's and
three's in the NBA, which I think is great deal for us. I think it is a great
deal for him. It added lot to his game. The best thing he was a great
rebounder. But the best thing he turned into was he was a hardest worker on
our team and was the best leader on our team, and those are the things that
while it is very different to replace 17 or 18 points a game, it's going to be
even tougher to replace his leadership and work ethic. I think we're work into
that, but right now it's missing. So we're not to the point right now in our
program to where we can replace a guy like that with recruiting. Hopefully our
recruiting will continue to get better, better, and better, There is not too
many places around the country that can replace the guy like him. Some in our
conference that can, but we're not at that point yet.



Q. Who is filling that spot right now?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: It changes from day-to-day. I think that for us to be
able to enjoy some success, every single player on our team has to do a little
bit more. I assume that Joe's numbers will be better. I assume that Acie's
numbers will be better. I know that Chris at this time last year all he was
thinking about was the interviews that he had with IBM or Accenture, those
kinds of things. He didn't even know he was going to be a basketball player.
He is going to a better player for us. Dominique Kirk is much better. I think
just familiarity is going to make us better. I think everyone is just going to
have to do a little bit more to piece it together. I don't think we're going
to have one player that going to be able to fulfill the role that Antoine was
able to perform for us.



Q. Coach, can you talk about your experiences what you learned in your first
season stepping up to the bigger stage in the Big 12 versus what you saw at
UTIP?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: Yeah, we learned that we really don't want to be in the
conference, but they make us play in there because it's so good. Totally
respectful of everyone in the conference, the players, the coaches, the home
crowds, the institutions and, man, it's a challenge every single time and but
that's why you come to Texas A&M; to play. That's why you come to play at the
Big 12 at one of the good schools. You are going to play against the best
programs in the country. And there is two or three times in our conference
this year that will have a chance to be in final four participants. There is
probably about nine or ten teams in or conference right now that definitely be
post-season teams. So what a great place to play. As far as learning what you
learn is you can't sleep on anything. The coaches are fantastic. There are
five or six times that are eventually Hall of Fame guys. The players are the
best. We have had a many guys drafted in the last five or six years as any
conference, top draft choices, home crowd advantages that are impossible,
almost impossible to win at their place and so it's fun. It's challenging. But
those things you really have to step your program up to be able to compete at
that level.



Q. This is for the players. Describe how last year unfolded how your opponents
seemed to respect you a little bit more?



CHRIS WALKER: I will take this question. I think that the last year, actually,
a lot of teams respected us before the season -- before the conference began
because we had a lot of success in the non conference schedule. At the same
point, I think that respect grew and grew, you know every subsequent game that
we play throughout conference, and I believe we somewhat shocked the
conference when we beat Texas, and I think whenever you beat a great team like
Texas, I think he people are going to look and evaluate what they I think
about you. I think that's really happened in the conference after that game.



Q. Billy, what's it be like sharing a campus with Tulane?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: You know it has been -- it has been great. As far as we
rarely see them. And not that we don't want to see them, but it's not been
hard at all for us, and you know, even if it was hard, that's what we need to
be doing, and they got a tough time right now. So if it were difficult, we
would make it happen. But they have been very accommodating to us, hopefully
we have been very accommodating to them. They're in a tough deal. You know
they're away from home and we're going to try to make them as comfortable as
possible but we haven't seen any problems is far. Practice just began last
week. If there is problems probably start to arise right now, but it has been
very easy for us.



Q. Billy and Joseph, can you both address this. I was looking at the Baylor
schedule and of course, they don't start for awhile. Can you imagine going
through that situation? I mean everybody talks about the Tulane situation.
Baylor doesn't get to play for a long time. Can you address that?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: Do you want to go first, Joe.

JOSEPH JONES: If it was us, it would be hard. But I don't know how they
practice. I don't know how everything will go with them. If it was it would be
very, very hard for us not to play any games. The way we practice is
everything is very have, just go out and hit it every day. I don't know.

COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: As far as me, I think I feel for them as far as not
getting to play, but time will pass very shortly and they'll have all that
behind them which is going to be a major help for them. But it must be
difficult. But I think all coaches would rather practice all the time and
never play any games. So I am not making light of their situation. I am just
saying if we didn't play any games that will be all right with me, but I don't
think the players would go for it. It would be very difficult to recruit I
think if we just practiced all the time and never played.



Q. Joseph have you learned any Lithuanian cuss words or taught him any
American?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: I asked him the other day about one, but I can't
remember. I don't know what he said how he said it. But I asked him he said a
couple of other day in practice. Couldn't understand anything that he was
saying this?

_

THE MODERATOR: Thank you all very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Thomas Gardner](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14252)

### [Jimmy McKinney](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13706)

### [Quin Snyder](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13901)

### [Kevin Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14255)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH QUIN SNYDER: It's good to be back in Dallas. And good to be here with a
few new faces for us. I think our primary goal since the end of last season
was to truly become a team and we went about that, I think a number of
different ways, particularly with just general emphasis in everything that we
did. Having said that, that's a bit of elusive concept and one that can come
and go, but I think for us fundamental I had to try to build that foundation
of team basketball and that's not to say that we haven't had it in the past
but we felt like we need it on an even greater level this year, not just for
our potential success, but because it's the right way to play. I think it's
something that our guys, I know, will enjoy embracing and I, for one, will
enjoy coaching. I think we have made great steps in that regard. Have more
work to do obviously, but pleased with our progress with respect to that goal.
Thomas Gardner here on my left dressed in blue. Jimmy McKinney also dressed in
blue. And Kevin Young dressed in blue. Welcome to these guys. I think three
kids that I am incredibly proud of and have shown tremendous leadership
ability in the off-season in facilitating some of these subtle shift in
attitude.



Q. What have you been able to observe about this team through the first couple
of days when the practices began?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: I think Jimmy and Thomas have really developed an even
greater rapport on the court. You can see them finding one another and when
they do implicitly or explicitly recognizing that that's going on. I also
think that Kevin has put in a tremendous amount of work in the off-season and
is playing with a lot more poise. He still is that anchor in the back of our
defense, but is a guy that we feel we can throw the ball to and provide us an
even greater interior threat. Our success is still going to come based on
whether or not we consistently defend from a day-to-day -- scoring can come
from different places, that has been demonstrated early. But I think our kids
have enjoyed playing with one another and they have been a very coachable
group. I think that bodes well for our ability to improve throughout the
course of the year.



Q. You talked at the start about wanting to get the team playing. What
specifically is missing and what do you want to see? You said it is still
elusive?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: With respect to?



Q. Getting that team play that you emphasized at the start.



COACH QUIN SNYDER: I think it starts with an attitude, like a desire, kind of
an appreciation for the fact that that's the right way to play. I think when
you don't make the extra pass or you take a bad shot or you are selfish, first
and foremost you have to hate that about yourself. If you can't hate it about
yourself that means you don't recognize it and someone needs to point it out
to you. In this case someone other than the coach. I think it has to be
something that's internalized and that the kids take ownership in. We have not
had -- I mean, I can count on one hand the amount of bad shots we have had in
practice. We haven't handled the ball as well yet as I think we can, because
our defense -- we're trying to really pressure. We are pressuring ourselves
into real mistakes. It begins with an attitude and a commitment. Secondly,
simple things strategically like spacing, ball movement, screening, man
movement, that facilitate those opportunities to play together. If everybody
goes and stands in four different corners on the court, you put one guy in the
center circle, it's hard to play together. So I think what we have tried to do
on the offensive end is encourage our guys with quick ball movement, ball
reversal, and various other things offensively to really facilitate that
connectedness. I think our guys have embraced it. I think they have found --
the right guys are still getting shots, it involves more playing to roles and
strengths where guys have to understand, you know, who needs to get shots, you
know, we like to throw it to Jimmy on the post. So when he's down there, you
know what, let's give it to him, you know. Thomas, for instance, instead of
settling for a 3-point shot, is shot faking and getting in the lane and giving
it up to Leo Criswell for a dunk. The things like that that to me are
indicative what our mindset is. Is Kevin Young instead of bearing it and
trying to go through somebody, pivoting and throwing the ball back out and
then playing off penetration. So lots of little things that demonstrate that
type of commitment.



Q. How much has Marshall Brown improved and what do you expect out of him?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: I think Marshall has improved significantly. I think he's
still got you know, Marshall Brown isn't going to kind of transform before our
eyes from what was really a post player in high school that can shoot the ball
into Scotty Pippen. That's not going to happen right now. That's not to say
Marshall doesn't need to be working on a daily basis on his perimeter skills.
I liken it a lot to Ricky Paulding, in Ricky's development. Although Marshall
is bigger and can play more inside, I think Marshall's value to our team is
really to embrace his role as a warrior. Marshall guarded Wayne Simeon last
year, he guarded Ronny Turiaf. He guarded perimeter players, and if he can do
that, as a coach, it's pretty tough not to have him in the game. He's a
capable shooter. I think his ball skills are improving. The less he tries to
do in a creative tricky way with the ball, I think the better that he will
look. Marshall's game right now on the perimeter needs to be one, two
dribbles, hard pullup into his jump shot, and to keep working on those other
things. I don't want to limit his development, which I think is really
important. He needs to keep working on those other things but maybe know that
-- it is like a pitcher that has got two pitch chest. You know if you are
going to be a great, you know, starter you need to develop you know, a slider
and you are working on your slider and maybe it's not ready for prime time yet
that doesn't mean you don't keep working on it. Marshall has got, I think some
pitches that he continues to work on that, who knows when we're going to see
them, who knows, right now he needs to do things simply. Like he needs to dunk
two handed instead of one handed because when he does he makes them.



Q. Kevin, last year there were times particularly on the offensive end when
you were obviously having a hard time. You could barely speak after the game
you were so upset. How tough was last year and how ready are you to put those
in the past?



KEVIN YOUNG: What happened last year was just motivated me to work harder.
Motivated our team to work harder, even the freshmen that came in know that we
just got to work harder, be better players. And, you know, at times everybody
gets frustrated a little, but it's just how you handle your frustration and
Jimmy and Thomas and Coach, Jason Horton, we all just learn how to deal with
it. They taught me how to handle it a lot better. Just go into the next play,
don't keep thinking about that play anymore, and that's just how it is for me
now. Doesn't really bother me that much now. I just try to play hard, go out
there and do my best, I was curious with Linas gone obviously rebounding is
going to be a factor for this team, how are you going to kind of supplement
that? Is that a team rebounding? Is there one guy who might step up do you
have that go-to guy?

COACH QUIN SNYDER: I worry more about that than I do scoring. I think when you
look at Linas's production, Linas shot below 40 percent from the field and I
think in Big 12 play was right around 13 percent from the 3-point line. From
efficiency standpoint scoring-wise, Linas wasn't necessarily our most
efficient offensive player. Now he did other things to create offense for
other players. I feel like if we're more after team offensively we'll be able
to generate better shots and shoot a better percentage. Having said that, when
there was a big defensive rebound, Linas Kleiza went and got it. There were
times whether it was on a free throw, he was a man possessed, and I don't know
if it was because he wanted to get fouled and get back to the line to can
score again, or he wanted the ball. But nevertheless, he got so many big
rebounds for us. That's something that I don't know that we can replace that.
I mentioned Marshall earlier. I think Marshall athletically, he doesn't have
the bulk that Linas has. Linas is a wider body but I think Marshall needs to
be -- when I say being a warrior that needs to be something that he needs to
take on. The other thing is we got to gang rebound. We can't have Jimmy kind
of taking two steps back. He has got to go -- we got to see Jimmy McKinney
going up and grabbing a rebound away from someone, you know, at the rim. We
have got to see Thomas Gardner driving a big guy under the goal so that Jason
Horton can sweep up a ball. We have got to gang rebound. That to me goes with
a defensive mentality. But Linas is as good a defensive rebounder as I have
seen in a long time. He was a warrior on the glass. And I think our guys know
that. Something that we have talked about and we have really worked hard on,
some of those physicality drills just getting used to banging each other and
developing some pride in that, but that's a concern. Especially against teams
with height, you know, where they are batting it around, we're going to have
to be a group that where we have five guys just really mixing it up down
there.



Q. Last year when you guys were at your best, you weren't scoring a lot of
points but you were playing good defense. Is this team well conditioned enough
to be able to do that for an entire season?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: I think we're in better shape right now than we have been
in, in a while. I think -- I have maintained this for a few years, our
strength and conditioning coach, Jeff Watkinson, I think is as good as anybody
and really good at gauging where our guys are. You don't want to run the race
next week. You want to run the race throughout the course of the year. And the
thing that we haven't had in a long time frankly is depth. I mean, two years
ago we had -- we have had 4 perimeter players. Then we had -- when Linas got
hurt we had 3 interior players. Last year we had 4 freshmen, 3 perimeter
players. One of them was Horton, one game was suspended, then we had Brian
Daily (phonetic), a walk on. So we have got some depth right now that I think
has pushed guys in practice to play at a higher level. I worry less about our
conditioning physically as I do our focus mentally, kind of changing style a
little bit where Jimmy has got to know that if it's not 30 minutes, and it's
24 or 25 that those 24 minutes can be way more productive even from a numbers
standpoint. Certainly more efficient, but it may be that in 24 minutes that
he's not having to take a rest; that he's running the lane harder, and I look
at it a little bit like, we need guys coming off the top turn buckle, tag
beginning each other, and going after it. Again, it gets back to a team first
mentality -- you will see it the first time a guy comes out of the game and
pouts, you know what, you are not going to get back in. You may not get back
in for two games and we can do that right now. We can do that right now
because we don't -- because I don't have to suit up. We have got other guys
that can come in and play that want to play and I don't think we're going to
have those problems. I think we have matured a lot. I think we can play
unbelievably hard. For us to be good, we have got to play harder than the
people we play against and we have got to play more unselfishly.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Bill Fennelly](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13850)

### [Brittany Wilkins](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13842)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH BILL FENNELLY: I have Brittany Wilkins with us today. Brittany is a
fifth-year senior from Arlington, Nebraska. I want to thank everyone for
coming. This is always an exciting time of year to start the basketball
season. We're looking forward to being part of what the Big 12 has to offer. I
don't think there's any question year in, year out this is truly the most
special league in the country with the fans and the Hall of Fame coaches and
so many great players and hopefully Iowa State is a team that will do our part
to uphold what this league has stood for over the last ten years. We're
looking forward to get going. We have only practiced four times, so I don't
know a whole lot about our team but we'll do the best we can to answer your
questions.



Q. Update on Heather?



COACH BILL FENNELLY: Heather Ezell is one of our freshmen who was hospitalized
for a week with a staph infection. She is out for about two more weeks. She
has a pickline, I.V. -- permanent I.V. for the next two weeks. She runs around
with a bag on her hip shooting jump shots. And she shoots better than anybody
on our team with an I.V. in her arm. She's doing a lot better. Probably won't
be available for two, three weeks. Basically what I told her is flush October
2005 and when November starts we will start over. Hopefully when November
comes she will be back practicing.



Q. So start of the season unlikely she'll be --



COACH BILL FENNELLY: I think she should be ready to go by the start of the
regular season opener November 20. I don't think she will be ready -- we have
exhibition November the 6th. I would doubt that she'd be ready to play that
night, but for sure we're planning on November 20. Hopefully it goes that way.



Q. (Inaudible) a bit of a dark horse (inaudible) team that can surprise some
people in the north?



COACH BILL FENNELLY: I wasn't surprised that we were picked 9th. I thought
that was probably appropriate. We lost a lot of great players. Look at all the
percentage of rebounding and percentage of scoring, returning, were not we're
not real high. I hope we can surprise some people. I think we can. I think we
have players that understand what it means to have an Iowa State jersey and to
play for this program. I think we're a program that has to compete game in,
game out, night in, night out since the league has been in existence. I firmly
believe we can do that again, but we'll have to see if that's possible. But I
like the approach our team has taken up to this point. We're going to have to
prove that we can play at this level. I think our kids understand what that
means and hopefully they can embrace that attitude.



Q. How different does it look at your practice and not seeing Ann and all the
starters from last year and how different will your team be this next year?



COACH BILL FENNELLY: It is, to be honest with you personally, it is extremely
difficult. Much more than how good of basketball players they were, those five
seniors did more for our university and for me personally than anyone I have
ever been around in my life probably. That was very hard to not go out there.
But at the same time I am very, very excited about the kids we have back, with
Brit, Lyndsey, Megan who understand it. We have some freshmen I think will
make an impact on our program and we're trying to play and understand what it
means to wear an Iowa State jersey. As you mentioned, those kids -- Tracey
Parsons (phonetic) is student coach, Katie Robinette (phonetic) works on our
scout team so we get to see them. Mary Fox and Ann O'Neil and Lisa Creener
(phonetic) emailed me or called me right before practice started. There's
still a part of it -- and hopefully the current players understand what that
means, and they will play and act and conduct themselves in a way that those
players did. Thank you for asking.



Q. Looks like the north division is really jumbled. Some of the teams that
weren't successful have a lot of people back. Other teams lose a lot and are
rebuilding. How do you see the north this year?



COACH BILL FENNELLY: Well, I think very similar to last year. I don't think
there is a great team right now in the northern division, but I think there's
a lot of teams that -- Colorado will be better, I think they are a year older
and any time there's a new coach, there's a new enthusiasm sometimes. Nebraska
has a lot of players back. I think Bonnie Henrickson is a star. I think she
can do -- I honestly believe they can do at Kansas kind of what Kim did at
Baylor with the way she coaches and recruits. Deb Patterson is always going to
be good. They have recruited very well. And Missouri, they have a lot of
players back and I think that as we look at -- those are 10 games that you
play that I think every coach in our league would say you have a chance to win
all 10 after you chance to lose all 10. That's going to impact someone's post-
season chances dramatically. And hopefully all of us will be able to also say
that we played some pretty good basketball because in this league you get 6th
or 7th place you got a great chance to be in the N.C.A.A. tournament. I think
the northern division is going to be an -- like last year, we had our own
little chart just for the northern division games because we really felt that
was going to impact the end of our season. I don't think that will be
something that we should probably throw away. Should probably bring it back
out.



Q. Brittany, with all the kids you lost and just I would say very strong
personality strong character kids along with good basketball players. How is
this team developing it's personality and chemistry can you tell so far this
early?



COACH BILL FENNELLY: This summer all five of the freshmen came up and took
classes and worked out and I think that really showed a lot of commitment on
their part just to the program and the roll this they are going to play this
year in our program. Just over the last couple of weeks we just been getting
to know each other more. Last year we just knew each other so well, that core
five seniors. But I think our team has a lot of potential to do that this
year. We had kind of like a team retreat a couple of weekends ago that just
really kind of opened a lot of doors just to get to know their personalities,
you know, besides them as basketball players because I think that's really
important for our program, just the chemistry that we have off the court I
think is huge. Because it carries onto the court as well. I am excited to get
to know the five freshmen and just what they have 20 offer for our program. I
think that they got a lot of expectations and I think they can do it. They
have had a great preseason, and I am excited to see how our personalities come
together and stuff.



Q. Is this Iowa State team going to look as much like the traditional Iowa
State teams or is this one going to be something new, something different?



COACH BILL FENNELLY: I hope it looks like the traditional Iowa State teams
because that's pretty good thing in my opinion. Our style of play will be a
little different. I think we'll be more traditionally post oriented than we
have been in the past with a true four and five man. Our strength is
definitely in our post game. I think we have four, five kids that can develop
and turn out to be very good post players. So that may be appear to be a
little bit different. We're still going to try and run the ball and like I
have said since the day I got here, shoot it before we throw it away and shoot
the 3 a lot and try and be entertaining and change defenses. And so I don't
think the casual fan will see a dramatic difference except for I think we'll
be taller than we have ever been. And there's a chance that we could actually
be 6-2, 6-2, 6-3, 6-3 at one point on the court. So that's unique for us. We
have kind have gone from a traditional four guard one post to maybe a little
taller lineup. I think that's the only thing that would probably to the casual
fan look a little different but hopefully the Iowa State Jersey will still
represent the same kinds of things and the way we play and the way we act and
represent our school and obviously represent our conference.



Q. Brit, seems like a lot of the teams that are here talk about being really
stronger at the post than in past years. Overall, do you think does it seem
like this is maybe going to be a post year in the conference this year, who in
the conference impresses you as far as the other opposing centers?



BRITTANY WILKINS: I would just have to say that I mean, post game is gone up
the level of play has definitely improved and gone up. The girls are getting
bigger, stronger, faster, and I think we have a lot to offer like our
freshmen, you know, Rachel Pierson and Nicky Wieben in particularly have
really stepped up and, yeah, you just got to go out there and every day roll
the ball out and bring that effort that Coach Fennelly talks about every day.
You are going to go against people that might be bigger against you or faster
than you but you can always outwork them and Coach Fennelly always talks about
rebounding. You can have a 59 girl be the best rebounder on your team. It is
about height but it is more about effort. Yeah the post game is obviously
strong in the Big 12 you can see that on Baylor's team with Sophia young and
just her game and stuff. Just come in every day with that effort and bring in
what you have to offer, so...



Q. Are you any more concerned than usual about going to Colorado this year
given the way they played you at the Big 12 tournament last year?



COACH BILL FENNELLY: No, I am always concerned when we play Colorado. I really
I feel -- it's hard coming here not seeing Coach Berry here and the way the
season ended last year, but I think the thing -- whenever we played Colorado,
they were as prepared a team as we played every year regardless of the score,
they were always prepared to play, so -- and the difference will be it's a
whole new style. I don't know Cathy's style that well, but I don't know that
they are going to running the try angle like Coach Berry did so there will be
some differences. They have a team that has great size and they played really
well obviously in the conference tournaments so I am sure that that's
something that they will point to in a small way. I don't know that it will
really impact the game dramatically. I think the challenge to us will be
adjusting to a style of play that I think Colorado is going to is from what I
have seen and read.



End of FastScripts...

| ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Darryl Dora](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13904)

### [Bob Knight](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15563)

### [Martin Zeno](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14273)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: We have Coach Knight to the stage. He's going to make a couple of
opening comments. Take a few questions.

_

COACH BOB KNIGHT: I think the beginning of the basketball season is always, I
think, the beginning of an interesting series of days for a coach. If you
really like coaching, then you really like the first day of practice. And if
you really like winning, you might not like the second day of practice. Then
it goes on from there. I think that practice, to me, is always the most
interesting part of the season because right now you get a look at new players
and players coming back, trying to determine if the kids you have recruited
can ever play. And hoping that the kids that are coming back are better and
what can you do to put these two groups of kids together. And then you kind of
go back and forth with that throughout the course of the whole year. So the
early part is -- sometimes I'd like to have tape-recorded my comments during
early practices, like, Boy that was a helluva play. Or, Damn, is he ever going
to learn? I mean, it's -- I think a coach's comments would really be
interesting about his players, or a coach's thoughts, maybe even more than his
comments, during the first few practices of the season because I don't think I
have ever been accused of being overly optimistic. But sometimes you think,
Can we ever win? And then there's a ray of hope and you leave practice
thinking that, Boy, there might be a chance. That's what is so great bit.
That's what is so neat about basketball, I think. I think I'd rather coach
basketball than anything because you can see it all in practice. It isn't like
you have got something going on here and here and you have to be -- it's
played in such a confined area that I think that you have an opportunity to
look at it better; see more of it each night than anybody that coaches
anything else, particularly football or baseball because the whole thing is
right there for you. That's sometimes good and sometimes bad. So I think
that's wherever the coach is at the beginning of the season. How is that for
opening remarks?

_

MODERATOR: Sounds good to me. Ready for questions?

_ 

Q. You have made a lot of stops here in the metro area playing at the American
Airlines Center, et cetera, are you seeing a benefit from the recruiting
aspect from making these stops?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: I don't know where we have been or where we have played. I
think that how our team has played and what it's been able to do and the fact
that our coaches have really worked hard in this area have helped us a lot
with recruiting.



Q. Could you talk about the process of trying to work 8 new players into a
team?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: I was alluding to that a little bit when I said that you say
to yourself, Damn, that was a pretty good play, or, Geez, I just talked to him
about that yesterday, or whatever. I think that all kids, when they go to
college from high school, all of a sudden find two things: That they are an
awful lot of good players playing and hopefully they understand that they are
not as good as they thought they were in comparison. I can remember the first
time I played in a pick-up game when I was in school. And I played against
Larry Sigfried and I said, I can't believe anybody is that good. And I had
never played against anybody like that before. I think that kids have that a
little bit and the kids that learn very quickly, that this is a much different
game than I played in high school. This is a much different level of
competition than I was involved with in high school. Those kids have the best
chance of becoming players. Some kids never learn that. I think the first
thing a kid has to learn about playing basketball is what he doesn't do very
well, instead of, Well, I am a really good player, I was recruited by 30
schools and I must be really good. Sometimes those guys never develop.



Q. The N.C.A.A. ruled that's allowed you guys to practice before the official
practice really gets started, how much of a benefit have you found that to be
to actually be able to work with them before?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: I think that's probably a rule that somebody else made other
than the N.C.A.A. because I have never seen a rule that they have made that
made as much sense as that one does. I think somehow that must have come from
the United Auto Workers, or the United Mine Workers or the Teamsters or
somebody, because the N.C.A.A. is not capable have coming up with something
that's actually that beneficial to the game of basketball. So, I mean, I
didn't believe it. I just happened -- I don't read a lot of stuff from the
N.C.A.A., but I happened to glance at that and I said, Somebody snuck this in
here just to as a joke, is this April Fool's or what the hell is the date on
this correspondence? But I think, you know, all that aside, I think it is a
very -- it is a good thing. I mean, we have -- but even -- even with that,
though, (laughter) even in those rare moments when they do something that's
good, like baseball, we have actually 13 scholarships but we have a total of
15 kids on the roster, although Damir is hurt. So we're dealing with 14 kids.
Let's say baseball is dealing with 30, and they still have to practice with
four at a time, you know, it takes our baseball coaches about five hours to go
through their whole team in 30-minute workouts. Now it would seem to me that
-- I mean, I'd like to picture an N.C.A.A. meeting with, you know, these
people sitting around the table, and this thing comes up about basketball, and
you'd like to think that somebody there would be smart enough to say, Well, if
we're going to do this for basketball, why don't we do it for baseball? I told
Larry Hayes the other day that I checked in Las Vegas and it was, I think -- I
think the spread was -- or the odds were 7 to 2 that baseball will not get
this ruling before the year 2010. By 2010 there will be somebody that will
say, This would be a good idea for baseball; goddam, why didn't we think of
that?



Q. Have you ever had a team that doesn't have a senior like this one and who
will play that leadership role like Ronald did?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: Yeah I have had teams that had leadership from
underclassmen, good teams on occasion. Ronald was not a born leader. Ronald
became a good leader after he and I had a conversation early in the last
season and became good. And I would like to think that in what he did, in that
role, our other players looked at and saw and understood that it was important
and those kids came forth a little bit this year using Ronald as an example.
We have had three kids that do that in practice, Jackson and Dora and Zeno
have all done that in practice. I think that Zeno has spent so much time
concentrating on leadership that it's hurt his passing. So I have told him to
let me lead and he pass. And he's a very intelligent kid and he said, Coach,
I'd really like to do both. I said, I'd like to have you do both, but I think
right now we're going to concentrate on your passing. In fact, your existence
may determine how well you concentrate on your passing. So while I think he
has really good leadership qualities, we put them on ice for a moment.



Q. You got a captain this year?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: Me. (Laughter).



Q. Regarding your favorite topic, the N.C.A.A., they purchased the rights to
the NIT. I know you were, I guess, deposed and did -- what did you think about
that purchase?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: Well, I don't really know what all went all went behind
that. There is a really good guy in the N.C.A.A. named Greg Shaheen. Some of
you may know Greg and he was the person I think is most intricately involved
with the changeover of the NIT from the MIBA, the Metropolitan Basketball
Association to the N.C.A.A. And he has, you know -- I suggested to him that
they really retain Jack Powers in the position that he's been in and to make
sure that there's a good -- it continues. And I think he was all for that, at
least in the communication that I had with him. And I think that he, left in
charge of the NIT, hopefully that will be the case, will do a really good job
with it because the NIT -- long, long time ago the N.C.A.A. should have gotten
over the NIT and they should have just said, Hey, this is great, the N.C.A.A.
tournament, after the basketball scandals in 1950 and 1951 became the more
important of the two and then as time passed it just simply became dominant.
Like comparing the Rose Bowl to a minor bowl almost, but yet that smaller bowl
was very significant to the two teams that played in it. That's how I have
always compared the NIT and the N.C.A.A. One time when we won the N.C.A.A. the
team that won the NIT wanted to have a Playoff for the National Championship
and I simply told them, Well, if you had been in the National Championship
Playoff in the first place you wouldn't have had to do it now. Well, yet, when
I have had teams play it -- I think there are times when -- like when I
coached at West Point, I really felt that the NIT was our objective. Only 25
teams in the N.C.A.A. at that time yet we actually turned down the bid once to
play in the NIT. It was a brilliant choice on my part because Notre Dame beat
us in the first game. But be that as it may, I think there are schools that
that can be -- that can be their objective. Also a school like ours that if we
played in the N.C.A.A. I think three of the last four years, we came up with a
really young team this year that was struggling and then the NIT would be a
great situation or if we were in a league where only one team went to the
N.C.A.A. and yet here -- here's this team that has had a really good record,
they were 23-and-5 or something, and yet they didn't win their league
tournament, the NIT is a great venue for a team -- I think it has been great
for college basketball over the years. And I would hope that the N.C.A.A., if
they keep it out of the hands of those people who make some of these rules,
and just let Greg Shaheen handle it, I think it will be good, I think it will
continue to be a very good thing for college basketball.

_

MODERATOR: Would you introduce the two players that are going to come up and
replace you, if you don't mind.

_

COACH BOB KNIGHT: We have got two kids that for the most part I really enjoyed
coaching. It would be unfair of me to say that they don't piss me off on
occasion. But these are two kids that just from the standpoint of what you
want to coach and how you want to coach and the fact that, you know, I tell
them, I say, This isn't practice -- practice is not for you to enjoy. It's for
me to enjoy. If I enjoy it, you are going to enjoy it. But let's all make damn
sure that I enjoy practice today. And these two guys work to see that that
happens. I feel very fortunate to have the opportunity to coach both of them.
If you were to ask me after practice tomorrow I may not feel that that
opportunity is as great as I think it is today, but by and large these are two
kids that I have really enjoyed and I won't trade them for anybody, Martin
Zeno and Darryl Dora. Martin is a sophomore, and Darryl is a junior. Come on
up here, boys. I think that the thinking of -- I feel that the thinking of a
coach is that if you could coach in all the time that you coach kids like
these two, then you could look back on things, times, that are much more
enjoyable than just simply winning games because of what you have seen kids
like this do. Now, remember, I have shown you pictures of everybody here, you
know how we went over this. Don't answer questions from those people whose
pictures I crossed out and from all of those people who, you know, you studied
you have got all the names and everything, so just make sure that you only
answer questions from those two people I told you to answer questions from.
(Laughter).

_

MODERATOR: We'll take questions from the players at this time.

_ 

Q. Martin, I wondered if you or your family have any Hurricane stories, how
they got through all of that?



MARTIN ZENO: My uncle was in Katrina. He lost everything. And then in Rita,
like a couple of people in my family had trees go through the roof and stuff
like that. And in my house like the roof was blown off and rain was inside and
mildew and all that stuff. But other than that my family is all right.



Q. Coached talked about something about how your leadership was affecting your
passing, he had a conversation with you. Could you give your version of that
and do you see you taking on that leadership role that Ronald had last year?



MARTIN ZENO: If that's what our team needs is a leader to step up, I will step
up and try to be that leader that we need.



Q. Talk about not having a senior and where that leadership is going to come
from this year?



DARRYL DORA: Like Coach said, we have myself and Jay and Zeno, I mean we're
working hard to get these young guys -- I mean, to get going. We really don't
have one particular leader right now we're just going with the flow and Coach
is our captain.



Q. What did you learn so much from last year from (inaudible) that's going to
take you into this year to go further?



MARTIN ZENO: We learned that it doesn't matter the size of the player, that
they can play anywhere in this league and you have got to be ready to play
every single night and just step up when our team needs somebody to step up
and to guard people and to do all the little things.



Q. You guys beat Kansas, you got to the Sweet 16. Yet there were other times
when you guys couldn't put it all together? What did you guys learn with
yourselves?



DARRYL DORA: The times that we didn't have it together was because we weren't
focused or listening to the exact things that Coach was telling us. We would
slip on defense and won't be in the right position and stuff like that. Our
coaches focus all week on preparing us on a certain team and if we don't go
out and do what they tell us to do, we're not going to win and by getting to
the Sweet 16, we just prepared well. And, I mean, we focused all during the
tournament, Big 12 tournament last part of the Big 12, that's why we ended up
in the Sweet 16.



Q. If there is a more polarizing figure in the N.C.A.A. other than Bobby
Knight, I don't know who it is. What were your expectations before you played
for him and how has that lived when you started playing and practicing under
him?



MARTIN ZENO: My expectation was when I found out that that's where I was going
to go and to come here and just come off a good start try to give me a good
spot to play in and just find out what type of coach he was really going to
be, and how he wanted each and every player to step up and play.

DARRYL DORA: My first expression was like he came in and just was honest with
me about everything. That's what I was looking for and it was the honesty and
everything about the playing situation, how much time you are going to get, he
never guaranteed you any time, if you are going to come here, he just said if
you come here and work hard, you are going to be able to play for me.



Q. Which have the new guys looks good right now and a lot of people I assume
are going to think it is going to take a while for you guys to really getting
to and get going with so many new faces do you guys agree with that, could you
get off hot?



MARTIN ZENO: Right now, like we got pretty much all of them are looking like
good as we would want them to look, but as we practice an practice of course
every team is going to gel together and if we keep on everything will be going
just as planned and how coach will want it to go.

DARRYL DORA: I think some players stand out. I think John Plefka stands out a
little bit more. He's a junior college transfer though. He's been playing in
big games before and stuff like that. That he has the college experience but
the freshmen they are coming along. They just got to listen to what Coach is
telling them and they will be just like Zeno said, every team is going to gel
together as the season goes along.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [JamesOn Curry](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13902)

### [Marcus Dove](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14262)

### [Sean Sutton](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13714)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH SUTTON: We are happy to be here. I brought our outstanding sophomore
forward JamesOn Curry, who's been a real privilege to coach and to have in our
program. He's thrust into a little bit after different role than maybe young
players at his age are accustomed to in that losing 6 seniors from a year ago,
he's the one player that we have coming back that has proved himself at this
level. He's played in big games. Was probably the difference in us you know,
winning 26 games, especially down the stretch, winning the Big 12 tournament
and getting back to the Sweet 16. He's maybe as gifted as offensive player as
we have had at Oklahoma State. He's one of those guys that unbelievable
shooter, at the same time he's a great passer and plays with such a passion on
the court. He makes guys around him better. This year with such a young team,
so many new players, he's put in a position where he's going to have be a
leader and our staff, you know, believes in him. We believe that he's more
than capable of handling that role. One thing I would mention is my dad wanted
to be here, had planned on coming in fact, but his back has started to bother
him again so couldn't make the trip.

_

MODERATOR: Questions?

_ 

Q. Similar to Kansas in the fact that you have a very young team, have you
been able to judge just where your team is, what they are able to do things of
that nature?



COACH SUTTON: Well, we have had -- we have been practicing four, five days, we
have had nine practices. We like the attitude of this team right now. They
have been very enthusiastic on the practice court. They have picked things up,
maybe better than we thought they might. They have listened. And that's one
thing, especially early in practice, your players have got to become good
listeners and they have got to go back and study their play book on their own.
Right now, they are doing those things. The one thing that I think is going to
be fun about this team is they are very talented group. We have got a lot of
interchangeable parts. It is a very athletic team. They like one another. And
with 8 new players you always worry about how the chemistry is going to be and
we won't know that because when you start the season an guys maybe don't play
as much as they'd hope to you don't know what their attitude is going to be
like. But right now they have done very well and they have got along well, and
it's going to take sometime. There's no question about that. But we like the
attitude. We like the effort we have seen so far.



Q. Coached talked about all the new players. Do you and David and Aaron, do
you all make those guys put on name tags? What is it been like for you to see
all these new faces, try to learn what they do and get integrated with the
team?



JAMESON CURRY: It's been fun so far all the players that want to be better we
have got, that makes it a lot easier. From a basketball player point of view,
you want to be around guys like that that want to get better. And get you
better, get the whole team better. It's been fun so far.



Q. Sean talked about chemistry now and how you measure it differently once the
games start. You started 15 games last year. Early on, how difficult was it to
sit there and watch?



JAMESON CURRY: It was hard, but at the same time I wanted to come out and play
my role. Instead of sitting on the bench and pouting and being a bad apple to
the team, knowing that we had a great team and that one bad apple can mess the
whole thing up. If you look at the game tapes from, I guess, Syracuse games
back early in the season, you would see me -- someone hit a shot, I am the
first one off the bench probably five feet off the ground cheering my lungs
out just happy because I work with those guys and work with them every day and
knowing that they work hard and they deserve every bit of shine they got. So I
didn't take it from a jealous point of view. I took it as a teammate. I am a
teammate, I am helping them get better and they are helping me get better. If
I keep working hard the coaches will notice it and my time will come.



Q. Coach was talking about your leadership ability with the young guys. By the
very nature of the position that you play, does it come easily to you?



JAMESON CURRY: I am not going to say it's easy, but it is a task at hand
because being a leader and young you have some guys on the team, transfers and
some of the returns that's older than you, it might be tougher to listen to a
guy that's younger. But at the same time we have roles on this team and this
is my role and have to play into the system that the coaches want to us play
into. In order to be a good team, I think that's the right decision, to be the
leader of this team and come out and show them the ropes because I have been
there before. Do the best we can and listen.

COACH SUTTON: One thing, he has got unbelievable respect from his teammates.
They know that he's a great player but they also see how hard he works at his
game every day. And how positive he's about life in general and I think
everybody should have what JamesOn has gone through. I think it's great
admiration from the players seeing him every day with a smile on his face
can't wait to get on the practice court. From that standpoint I think that
he's going to be a great leader for this team and his teammates really look up
to him.



Q. Sean, a little earlier today Coach Self was plugging JamesOn as a potential
Player of the Year candidate. Do you see that as a possibility? Is he that
good this quick?



COACH SUTTON: Well, I think there's a lot of great players in this league. You
talk about Taj Gray, talk about Curtis from Ohio State, Daniel Gibson from
Texas, Aldridge Topper (phonetic), but he's certainly one of the best players
in the Big 12. If he has the type of year that we think that he could, if our
team does well, he's capable of possibly being the Player of the Year because
of the impact that he has on the game. Not only from an offensive standpoint,
scoring, but the way that he passes the basketball and he's become a much
improved defender. That will all play itself out.



Q. With JamesOn being a sophomore, is that a lot of pressure to put on a guy
to kind of carry this team and lead this team?



COACH SUTTON: Normally you would say yes, but he's not your average player.
This guy is special and he has got great charisma on the court and he's played
in big games and he's been a part of being at the Sweet 16. I think he
understands what it takes at this level to be successful. So, no, go back to
what I said we have got a lot of confidence, we think for sure, that he's more
than capable of handling that job. There is some pressure, but I think he's
ready for it.



Q. Sean, you returned three other players besides JamesOn, any of those guys
have stepped forward as leaders also and have they made big strides as
players?



COACH SUTTON: I think Marcus Dove and Aaron Pettway and the David Monds have
all been a good example on the practice court. They have tried to help the
younger players in drills when those guys are resting on the sidelines, they
go over and visit with them about certain things and try to help them learn
whatever we're working on that day. I think Aaron Pettway is playing very well
right now. Now whether he can carry it over to the games is another story. But
so far in practice he's played more at the level that we hoped he would when
we recruited him. He's rebounding the basketball, he's blocked shots, he's
read the court, he's dunked everything around the basket. He's not ever going
to be a great offensive player, but he can be a big factor on this team
because of how athletic he is and the type of plays that he makes off his
athleticism. I think David Monds has gained confidence. He understands that
he's a pivotal part of this team, both those guys are in position to start, if
they do their jobs and Marcus probably is the best defender that we have
coming back. He's worked hard to improve his shooting. He's still got to
continue to work on his ball handling, but he's a guy that will certainly
challenge for a starting position because he's been at the system two years,
he understands how to play defense.



Q. When you all brought JamesOn in, you knew what the makeup of this year's
team was going to be like losing all these guys. In your considerations for
bringing him in did you look at that at all and know this would probably have
to be a team that he would have to be a leader on and how he would handle
that?



COACH SUTTON: No. You know, we weren't thinking that far ahead at the time. We
felt like we had a team coming back at the time that legitimately had a chance
to win the national Championship coming off the Final 4 team. We felt like if
we could get a big guy, which we got in Aaron Pettway, and he never played to
the level that we hoped he would and then we felt like if we could get a great
guard to step in for Tony Allen that that might be the difference. And we knew
that this year was going to be a little bit of a trick year to lose so many
players but when we recruited him we weren't looking that far down the road at
the time.



Q. Obviously with a young team defense comes last, but given the athleticism
it appears you have got -- where do you see this team definitely January,
February?



COACH SUTTON: Well, I think we got a chance to be a great defensive team and
we have talked to our guys on several occasions about this. It's certainly
been emphasized everyday in practice. We have spent a lot of time on defensive
drills, on playing two-on-two, three-on-three, four-on-four, breaking things
down from a defensive standpoint, and I think the players fully understand
that if they are going to play they are going to have to play defense. And
because of the quickness, because of the athleticism, this ought to be an
outstanding defensive team. It could be like some of our teams in the past
where we can really get after people, pressure the ball hard, get out and run
through the passes and make it difficult for teams to get in their offense.
And, you know, last year, that team was never the defensive team it should
have been. You look back on maybe the last 8 seasons, that team probably did
the worst job of any team that we have had night in, night out defending
people. I think we gave up 43 percent field goal shooting in our goal, is 39
percent or below, 29 from the 3-point line or below. In big games you know,
they did not get it done. They were and a very fun team to coach, a fun team
to watch on the offensive end because they could score. We had guys that could
shoot the basketball, we led the country in 3-point shooting. But ultimately
the defense cost us a chance at getting back to the Final 4. Probably cost us
a chance to repeat as Big 12 champions, and two of the biggest games last year
I think Kansas shot seemed like they shot about 80 percent, I think it was
like 66, 68 percent, then did the same thing in the Sweet 16. That shouldn't
happen. When you score 76 or 78 points in an NCAA tournament you ought to win.
Because normally our defense has been good enough that we could hold people
under 70 points and the same thing with Kansas, I think they shot -- scored 81
points that night, so in order for this team to reach the goals that we have
for them, they have got to be a great defensive team. I think they have got
every opportunity to do that.



Q. Is it easier to win with a younger team now than it was, say, 10 or 15, 20
years ago?



COACH SUTTON: I think it is because of so many guys that are leaving early to
go to the NBA. You don't see the teams that are stocked with seniors like
maybe you have in the past and that was one of the luxuries we had the last
two seasons is that we had a veteran team, guys that played a lot of games
together. They were older. But you see teams all the time that get to the
Final 4 with young players and a young team. I remember in 2000 we had 7
seniors on that team and we played Florida in the lead 8 and they had a very
young team, the majority of their players were freshmen and sophomores and
they won the game. And ended up going to play Michigan State for the National
Championship. So with so many guys leaving early and then the impact that
freshmen are having on the game today, I do, I think it is a little bit
easier.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Jody Conradt](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13898)

### [Nina Norman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14241)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome the University of Texas Longhorns and Coach
Conradt has joined us up here. Coach, if you would introduce Nina and maybe
make a comment or two we would appreciate that. Then we will let you take
questions.

_

COACH JODY CONRADT: Thank you very much. I am very happy to be here and to
have representing our team Nina Norman. She is a senior and a guard who has
been a big contributor to the success of the program over her three-year
career. Isn't it the best time of year? I think although we're all enjoying
the success of our football team, it's excitement that surrounds the beginning
of the basketball season. There is something about this time of year and the
new players that come on your team and you look at the progress and the hard
work that the returners have put in and there's optimism for all of us. I
certainly feel that way about this team. I think as it gets closer to that
first game, I will probably have more questions than I will have answers
because as most of you are aware, we have seven freshmen on this year's squad.
I have never been a part of a team with that many newcomers. Almost half our
team is new. Almost half our team has never stepped on the floor and played a
Division I basketball game. They are an outstanding group in terms of talent
and potential. At this point I guess I will have to just say it will be the
coaching that's the determinant as to whether we're successful or not. That's
a joke. (Laughter). Thank you for laughing.



Q. How different will this team look?



COACH JODY CONRADT: I needed a program almost going into practice because
again it's a huge freshmen class. The first thing I did notice about this team
and all through the summer and we had the advantage of bringing a lot of
freshmen to campus for summer school, but you always look at what your
returning players do over the course of a summer because realistically the
improvement they make and the commitment that they show is going to be the
critical factor in terms of determining the success of a team. And in our
program it's always been the fact that the leaders of the team need to be the
seniors. They have been there three years, they know what is expected and how
seriously they take that leadership role tells a lot about the potential of a
team. And I haven't had a group who has taken that commitment any more serious
than the seniors on this year's team and that certainly is due in a great part
to Nina Norman. I think she has been one of those players in our program that
has been unheralded, underrated and in a lot of ways overlooked. She has been
a tremendous competitor for us and has been one of the driving forces behind
our team. I have to feel knowing now what I know about Nina, how she spent the
summer, that she was waiting for a time for it to become literally her team,
and it has. We have met periodically and talked about where are we with our
team, what do we need to do, and Nina has been great in the locker room with
our team. I really feel confident about how these freshmen will transition
because of the leadership they are receiving from Nina and the other two or
three seniors on our team. So I am excited about it. They are talented. The
question with freshmen is always how can they perform on a consistent basis.
We won't know that for a while down the road. I don't remember what the
question was, but hopefully I answered it and all that.



Q. Can you talk about taking on that role now and with so many freshmen on
this team, what responsibility do you feel like you need to take on with this
team?



NINA NORMAN: It's hard. I didn't realize how hard it was until they are
getting on me like they are tired and I am telling them to keep going because
I was in my freshmen year and I shared my experiences with them because they
think it's pretty easy to me and it's not. But I am really looking it because
they are coming along really well and they are listening. It's going to be
hard if they don't listen, but they really listen to me and look up to me and
I just want to help them out as much as I can because they are really great
bunch of girls.



Q. The Big 12, you can tell them I guess about what to expect, but if you
think back at your first Big 12 game, what do you remember from that and how
can you prepare them for the rigors of this conference?



NINA NORMAN: I was scared. I played scared a lot of my freshmen year. I think
once they get out there they have to get a feel for it on their own they are
not going to understand how tough it is until they get out there. Back in high
school they were probably the best player on their team and they didn't have
to work really hard to get what they needed and now they are going to have to
work. They are seeing in practice that it's hard to get by somebody and that
the old moves that they used to work don't work now. They have got to learn
the game. I think once they start learning it and get some experience under
their belts they are going to be fine.



Q. You talked about Nina being overlooked. Do you think last year when she was
hurt, her absence was pretty glaring that maybe that was something that showed
everybody, even her teammates, how valuable she was?



COACH JODY CONRADT: Absolutely.



Q. Second question, managing depth, the amount of depth and talents you have
if you can -- you have done that before, talk about both those things.



COACH JODY CONRADT: I really appreciate that question because that tells me
that you really paid attention and you noticed the impact that Nina Norman had
on our team. We're kind of up and down during the season and I think we didn't
probably meet the expectation that's we had for ourselves or maybe that others
had on us. But we had really started to play well toward the end of conference
schedule and into the Playoffs. Then Nina breaks her hand, and it was
tremendously difficult for our team to move forward without her being 100%. I
think they appreciated very much the fact that she was willing to play with a
broken hand that took almost all summer to heal. But at the same time when she
wasn't able to perform at the same level, our team wasn't nearly as good and
hopefully we can stay injury free. It's always an issue. But when you lose a
key player at a key point in the season, it's disappointing, but it's also
pretty predictable. In terms of the freshmen I couldn't pick right now who is
going to play right away. I would say that two or three of them need to play
early and need to play well for us to be good. No one has him united
themselves right now. That's the overwhelming feeling that I sense from this
team. There are seven of them and nobody has taken themselves out of it. We're
really going to be good, my prediction and my feel at the guard position. And
Nina is setting the tone for that group for sure. The surprise is, I'd have to
say at this point everyone knew Erika Arriaran was talented and she hasn't
disappointed in any sense. But I don't think anybody really knows how good
Carla Cortijo is. She has an uncanny ability which few players do, which is to
know what is going to happen two, three plays down the line. She is going to
be an outstanding player. I think the other player that stands out in my mind
is a player that people probably won't name immediately is Aubry Cook. She had
an injury in her senior year and therefore didn't play because of an ACL tear.
I have been impressed with her competitiveness, her nastiness, in a very
positive way, and I think she will be a player that will play right away. We
still have a couple that are coming back from injuries and surgeries so they
are not all seven in practice 100% right now. So it's going to be fun. It's
going to be interesting, but I enjoy the enthusiasm and the newness that
freshmen bring to a program.



Q. How different is it going to be for you there, that leadership role on the
court, without having Jamie over there because seems like you kind of, I don't
know, rely on her in a lot of ways over the last three years?



NINA NORMAN: It's going to be different because Jamie always had my back.
Anything that went wrong I could always come to her about anything. But I
think I am doing pretty good on my own and I have another one that's coming up
with me and she is listening to me and she is my outlet through other guards
who are struggling a little bit. She is helping me out a lot in a lot of ways
that I didn't think she could handle. Carla's doing very well. She is helping
me out and telling me things that I don't see and I tell her things that she
doesn't see.



Q. With Tiffany, so talented coming in as a freshman. Between sophomore and
junior year there's still that step up. Do you see that from her? I guess, in
general, what do you see from her this season?



NINA NORMAN: Tiffany is awesome. Who wouldn't want her on your team. She is
doing really good. She is picking it up. She is really talented. And, I mean,
she is doing a lot of stuff to help her game out. She has been working on her
jumper. I have been seeing improvement in practice. I am really proud of her
for that when she works on a couple more things in her game. She is going to
be a really, really good player than what she already is.

COACH JODY CONRADT: My response to that is I think everybody knew as a
freshman that Tiffany was going to be talented and an impact player, that
certainly happened. I think you looked at last year and just look at the
stats, she averaged 18 points and almost double-digit rebounds, so what is the
next step? I think it is for Tiffany now to make the players around her
better. And I have talked to her about that and I think she understands it.
It's pretty common to see the seniors for sure, but also to see Tiffany in
between her turn in a drill talking to one of the freshman and telling them
things that are going to help them and to encourage them. And she has been
really diligent in trying to set a good example, which hasn't always been
Tiffany's strong suit. When she plays hard nobody plays harder. And that there
were days where it wasn't always there for her. Now it's there, day in and day
out. To just talk about why she is not here, day before yesterday, she got hit
in the head with an elbow and, you know, I -- in an affectionate way she is a
beast. Usually she is dishing out that kind of physical play, but she took one
on -- in the eye and on the head and her eye was quite discolored, the white
of the eye was looking like Texas Tech red to me. And she had a minor
concussion and the doctor advised that the pressure on the eye, flying today
was not going to be the most positive thing. So I know you are missing her
fashion statement, but I am sure she had the outfit picked out. You will see
it at some point during the year.



Q. How do you -- when you have freshmen that have so much expectations before
they have even played a game, how do you keep them from expecting too much of
themselves and getting too out of control or how do you handle that?



COACH JODY CONRADT: I don't think they are having time right now to worry
about much except just surviving the next day of practice. I have been really
pleased, you know, you have an impression of youngsters as you recruit them
and you see them in their comfort level and in their environment and you think
they are one way. What I have been most impressed with with this group is
their willingness to learn. They have all stepped out there and tried and
taken the challenge and I talked to Crystal Boyd yesterday in the study hall
situation after practice. I said, Are you getting excited about the game? She
expressed the same thing Nina said she felt as a freshman: I am really scared.
So I think that's pretty typical of all of them. They don't know what to
expect. They know the expectations are there. But it's all new and it's hard
and it's an adjustment. My hope would be that this freshman class can have the
same kind of successes -- only four years ago that I was sitting here talking
about Heather Schreiber and Kala Bowers in a freshman class that was pretty
highly rated. I had to ask Barb today but she said that that group and their
four-year career won 132 games and lost 20. So if this next group can have
that kind of success then I think we're going to be pretty happy with how they
progress.



Q. Could you discuss what Todd Wright's influence has meant? I know it hasn't
been long but has he made a big impact already?



COACH JODY CONRADT: On our campus we're a team. It's a basketball team but
extends far beyond just the players who make up that team. We have tremendous
people on our campus and tremendous resources and I know that those of you who
have covered the men's side and Texas sports in general know that Randa Ryan
who has been a long-time employee on the women's side over our academic area
has assumed some responsibilities on the men's side. And I thought, Okay, they
have figured out that Randa is the best and they want her expertise and I am
looking around and I am seeing Todd Wright at what he's done for Rick's
program, so we made a trade, one Todd for one Randa. And now I think I have
access and I think our team is benefiting from the best strength coach in the
country. Todd Wright is not just a strength coach. He's a kinesiologist. He's
someone who understands what the human body needs to play basketball at a high
level and he's training our players the same way he's trained Rick's. I think
my belief in him is pretty evident by the fact that if you ask Nina how many
times our team worked together before October 14th date she could probably
count it on one hand and maybe two. I felt like it was really important for
Todd to have his six hours and, therefore, at the sacrifice of our doing
anything much with our team in its entirety, so I think it will pay off for us
ultimately. And the other part of that is that I can promise you around
February those freshmen are going to be looking around saying when is the
state tournament because the season gets really long for them as it does for
some of the older players. So Todd has had our players in the maximum number
of hours for the maximum time allowed anticipating that the base that they
gained there will pay off for us in the long run.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Sherri Coale](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13897)

### [Erin Higgins](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13855)

### [Courtney Paris](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13851)

### [Leah Rush](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14237)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  

COACH SHERRI COALE: Great to be back in Dallas. Wish it was just a little bit
cooler, but I won't complain too much. I have with me today junior Erin
Higgins, junior Leah Rush, and freshman Courtney Paris. Practices have been
terrific, very excited about our squad. It seems that I have made some sort of
big news statement by bringing Courtney today. She is a freshman obviously,
and I guess that's unprecedented. But a terrific freshman and a freshman very
well prepared for the atmosphere of Big 12 media day. Practices have been
awesome. We're excited. We have an unbelievably challenging schedule which I
am sure many of you will ask about as we get on into this. We're excited and
ready to start.



Q. (Inaudible) do you ball it up with one person, or who gets that
responsibility?



COACH SHERRI COALE: You are absolutely right. Dionnah Jackson was the real
deal, the total package. I always say, when a senior graduates you don't
replace her with one person. I don't think you replace Lauren Shoush as a
senior on last year's squad. Who is going to drive on the floor and get loose
because for us now who is going to take charges. That's what Shoush did. We
have to find somebody to do those jobs. Somebody's got to get a bunch of
offensive rebounds and somebody has got to be a defensive stopper and somebody
has to break the defense and get to the rim. That's what Dionnah Jackson did.
Doesn't really matter who we get it from as long as we get it. And if it's by
committee, it is okay with me.



Q. You mentioned freshmen earlier. Is this a year kind of a transition year?



COACH SHERRI COALE: The Big 12 conference lost a lot of very talented players
to graduation last year. It was a very senior-laden league and there are lots
of new names. Even when I looked through the lineup of who was going to be at
Big 12 media day, a lot of different names than the customary. Seems like
Kendra Wicker (phonetic) has been coming for ten years, and I know for a while
Stacy Dale (phonetic) has been coming for ten years. It's kind a changing of
the guard, I suppose, and a very talented young group of freshmen in the Big
12. I think that's one of the reasons it's such honor for Courtney to be
mentioned as preseason Rookie of the Year. It's not like there wasn't a lot of
competition for that award out there. Great league.



Q. Leah and Erin, talk about -- you know, Courtney and Ashley obviously
stirred everything up there. What are your perceptions of how this Paris and
her sister have done, and more importantly though, can they change how you
guys play both inside and aggressiveness all those things?



LEAH RUSH: I think our team has a different look this year. I was the center
last year, now Courtney is taking that. It's just -- having a presence like
that on the inside really changes the way the rest of the team plays.
Everybody is kind of moved back to their natural position now and so it makes
it a little bit easier, I think, for everybody to be successful.

ERIN HIGGINS: I just think that we have never really had an actual true center
presence in-the-paint so now with Courtney and Ashley we get that so now we
have a lot of attention going in on the inside that's going to open up a lot
of stuff on the outside, which I am excited about. And I don't know I just
feel like they are coming along very, very well. I don't know that we have had
this much team chemistry this early in the year as we have this year since I
have been here.



Q. Sherri, we know that with Courtney coming in you all fill a spot that has
been an issue for you all in the past. Looks like you are solid everywhere. Do
you have what you need as far as someone to distribute the ball and get the
ball to all those players, that pointguard, Dionnah -- I don't know how many
assists she had. She was far and away (inaudible) in terms of assists, do you
have that --



COACH SHERRI COALE: Close to 7, I believe is what she had. I feel really good
about our point position. I think that may be the piece that's the most
improved. We're going to look different because we have a quintessential post
player for the first time. But I think with all the attention -- and it's very
deserved. Courtney and Ashley are incredible young players and they are going
to change a lot of things for us, simplify a lot of things for us. But maybe
they have come at the right time and maybe the biggest difference is that
those juniors are ready to be what they need to be around and with a
quintessential post player. Britney Brown and Kenra Moore may (inaudible) I
don't have any idea. We have had four days of practice. They both have been
really, really solid. They are different kind of point guards. Britney is
solid and very, very dependable and you may not get a wow play, but she is not
going to do many things wrong. Kendra may throw it out of bounds and then she
may throw a look-away that gets everybody out of their chair. Her ceiling is
really, really high. Both of those guys have figured out the mentality I think
of the point guard position which is a very, very difficult thing to grow
into. The leadership, the responsibilities, I am very please the with those
two, and with everyday of practice, everybody, Leah, Erin, Chelsi, Krista
Sanchez, everybody who has thrown the ball to the post is getting more
comfortable. I think we can have a lot of guys that can feed it and feed it
well.



Q. Courtney, coming in as a freshmen -- you keep hearing people talk, it's
been one of the bigger stories in the Big 12 about Oklahoma needing a post
presence. Talk about being a young post player how much you have learned even
so far in individual workouts. Then also what your summertime experience was
like playing on USA basketball team?



COURTNEY PARIS: I think as far as being a young post player and just -- I
mean, as far as individuals and learning things, for instance, about your
regular people in the post I never thought about that. Every day after we work
with the coaches always think I wish I would have known that in high school
knowing how to use my body more. Just different techniques, I have gotten so
much better just in the little time I have had here and I am excited for the
next four years. I think as far as coming in as a freshman I had a lot of
experience with college practicing with the coach from Duke this summer. A lot
of that -- I got a lot of big adjustment from USA basketball experience coming
in so I think I got a lot of experience coming in.



Q. You talked a little bit about just the changes in the conference this year
with the kids that left, really the last two years have been tremendous
classes for the Big 12 and nationally. Does that open a way for a Leah Rush or
Erin to maybe get the kind of national attention that they haven't gotten the
last two years because there were upperclassmen ahead of them who were more
national bigger stars?



COACH SHERRI COALE: Sure. I think there's a changing of the guards and I think
that's one of the things that makes the big 12 conference so special. You
don't go on a two or three-year drought waiting for other national Player of
the Year candidates. They are just -- the next layer you peel the top one off,
there are your next superstars. That's one of great things about this league.
Attractive thing for young players who are looking for their home for the next
four years, this is a place where the competition is as good as it gets. There
are lots of stars just waiting for their opportunity.



Q. What time did you know you would go to OU and was it always you and Ashley
or were you separately thinking or how did that come to be?



COURTNEY PARIS: I think -- I mean after my official visit -- I am a people-
person and I had got to know all these guys, I got to know the coaches a lot
during recruiting. Really my heart was just there. Ashley and I, I think we're
twins but we're very much different. I think towards the end we both were kind
of looking at different schools, but ultimately Oklahoma had what we were both
looking for and it's worked out really well for us.



Q. How are you and Ashley similar, different as players on the court?



COURTNEY PARIS: I think Ashley, she is more of like -- she is more of like an
outside player and she likes to be facing the basket. I am more of like a lot
of kids growing up, always wants to be the pointguard and dribble the ball
around. I was always the kid that always wanted to be posting up and --

COACH SHERRI COALE: You try to dribble, you try to do that.

COURTNEY PARIS: Don't tell me.

COACH SHERRI COALE: Yeah you do.

COURTNEY PARIS: I think I am more of like a power post and she is more finesse
and can do be a little bit more versatile than I am.



Q. Who gets to try to guard Courtney in practice? And Leah and Erin, just
speak up what you have seen so far from her on the court?



COACH SHERRI COALE: A lot of people at the same time get try to guard her in
practice. I really feel bad for Leah because we had a little rebounding drill
going on the other day, little cut-throat action where you put the bubble on
the rim so shots don't go in. Everybody's working on blocking out and
offensive rebounding. We went for about 5 or 6 minutes before Courtney figured
out how this game can best work and so she began to shoot and get her own
rebound because you get points when you rebound and shoot, and get her own
rebound and shoot and get her own rebound and Leah is flying against the wall
and running back after and looking at me like would you please stop this. I
was giggling at half court. Eventually they figured it out, and understand
that she is a presence to be reckoned with in the middle of the lane. We
haven't had anybody really good her real successfully yet and I think that's
really good for us.

ERIN HIGGINS: I guard her. She doesn't want any of me. (Laughter.) Because
(inaudible) exactly. We play against guys, we have the guys scout team and
they can't guard her. She is just -- like she said she's learning how to use
her body, which I think she kind of lacks coming in. She is learning how to
not necessarily go through people but making -- go around them and then use
her body. She is using her brain a lot more than when she first came in. She
is a very, very smart player. A great passer, no offense. She is a great
passer, I mean I think that's one thing that people don't know, she has
unbelievable court vision so if somebody is going to come double she is going
to find whoever is getting doubled up. She is very smart and I think that
that's going to help her out a lot especially in this league.



Q. Sherri, nationally, right now a lot of people probably are putting
Tennessee, Duke, one, two, those are both teams that of experience but are
going to count on younger players. This seems last year seemed very wide open
and Baylor won it and proved that was the case. Do you have a feel nationally?
Do you feel like it is as wide open as a raise for the Final 4 as it was last
year?



COACH SHERRI COALE: I don't know if as wide open is appropriate, but it is
still wide open. I think in my mind Ohio State jumps right into those two you
just mentioned, Jessica Davenport is a force and they did a great job down the
stretch last year. Has the pieces to go around her. I think there's a lot of
teams that could win it. I think that's just a continual sign of positive
growth of Division I Women's basketball, just keeps getting better.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEDIA
DAYS](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEDIA+DAYS)

  

## October 19, 2005

  

### [Morenike Atunrase](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13854)

### [Tamea Scales](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14238)

  
_DALLAS, TEXAS_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome you, coach and if you will introduce your
players and make a couple of opening comments.

_

COACH GARY BLAIR: I appreciate it. How about those Astros. Tamea Scales on my
far left here. She's a senior. She's from Memphis Tennessee. She started for
us last year at the five position, best singer on the team, best dancer, best
post player. Hopefully, you will never see her again in the five position.
Hopefully, she'll get a little taller. The next young lady is Morenike
Atunrase from Shreveport, Louisiana, play on the same high school as Lambeer
who played. Her mom is in the back there. Her home lives in Dallas right now.
And she walked in like she was one of our junior college players that started
this year. Morenike will be moving to the perimeter this year. Hopefully going
to do an outstanding job for us this year. Sheaf had a great job much playing
for USA basketball, and just learning how to play the perimeter position for
us. We're glad to be here. Glad to be back in Texas, Big 12 tournament this
year.

_

THE MODERATOR: Okay. Questions.

_ 

Q. Coach, you talked last year. Do you see a difference a year makes?



COACH GARY BLAIR: Difference a year makes. Coaches always use the word young.
That's never going to change. But at the same time young is -- I would like to
be young again. I am like you, but, unfortunately, I am sort of like Peter
over here. I am not young anymore, but I do have more hair. We still got six
new kids coming in this year. We signed 11 kids in two years, and last year
our freshman class played for 53 percent of our minutes, five out of those six
freshmen from the a year before are back with us. Hopefully they're going to
be a lot better, but A'quonesia Franklin, our point guard, she just got better
playing in the competition. You go against Jamie and Anna Jackson and the kids
from the Big 12, particularly the Big 12 South you get better. Not by
accident, but just through competition. This is my third year. And to me, it's
time to rebuild and youth and all that. It's time to get it done. It doesn't
matter we're in the Big 12 South or the SEC or Big East. I like the talent on
this basketball team. I like the depth. It's the deepest team I have ever had
in my life period. 25 years of college coaching, we're deep. Now can we turn
athleticism which we do have. Can we turn the height which we just brought in
this year. Can we turn this freshman class that are now sophomores and
producing at the highest levels. Tamea Scales and Erica Roy lead us through
the tough times. Can they make the tough baskets when it counts? I am looking
forward to it this year. Am I predicting anything, no, ma'am. But we will be a
lot better on the basketball court, and hopefully it's going to translate into
a few more W's this year and L's going the other way. But basketball-wise,
we're a lot better.



Q. Tamea, can you lead them to next level; can you make those big baskets at
the end of the games?



TAMEA SCALES: I am looking forward to making -- to my original position which
is the high post position. I feel like at the forward position, I can make a
little more things happen than I was able at the five position last season,
but I am looking forward to making the forward position exciting, exciting for
the fans as well.



Q. Can you break down for us some of those incoming post players, freshmen,
what you have seen from them so far?



COACH GARY BLAIR: Okay. For some of you that kept up with basketball back in
the '80s, in Houston, Larry Micheaux, we have her daughter playing for us
LaToya Micheaux who is 6'3". She's going to help us right away. We are
committed to getting bigger at the five position. And even though Latoya and
Lenka Zimova our junior college player, on paper, they're aren't our best five
players. We don't worry about our best five players. We have to get or team
better. So we're committed to playing those two lady's at the five position
and moving everybody to the left one position over, and we're going to be
better. A'Quonesia is the most physical post player I have ever seen in my
life. Now translate that again into being a pure basketball player and stay in
more ball games. You walk through the lane now, you are going to be touched.
Last year, I am not saying anything - Tweedy is her nickname - so you have a
sort of a problem of post player is 6 foot, 145 pounds and her nickname is
Tweedy, that becomes a problem. I love the name, but I want to move her
outside where she can be more effective. Now, when people come through the
lane on us, there is going to be a physical presence. Also, by moving her out
to the three position, that's really going to help us. Lenka Zimova is like
huge teddy bear out there. She's the most likable kid on our team. Her English
is improving every day. She understands everything that is going on. And all
of a sudden I will throw one of my quotes out there or -- and she'll look
around and say, coach, what did you say? But she's getting better. Most
European players, they shoot better than us Americans. Okay. They do. They
spend more time on shooting the basketball. Americans spend more time on
creating with the basketball. And so when it gets into the low post, she's got
the baby hook. She's got the fade-away shot. She shoots well facing the
basket. We just got to get her up and down the court a little bit quicker, and
that will happen. But once the ball gets down to the court, once she gets down
there, she's knows what to do with it. But the compliment of those two kids at
the low position will be able size-wise be able to say, there is Paris kids
coming in there is Tiffany Jackson, we can look at them eyeball to eyeball and
not necessarily front every defense player that we face and play for help side
defense. Two kids that you are really going to like. Takia Starks out of
Westfield. Her team won state as a junior, and that team was loaded with
talent. She's going to compete for starting position at the two guard
position, and at the back up point guard position. But a very good player.
Actually on paper, probably her, the next young lady two highest recruits that
we signed. Danielle Gant was player of the year in the state of Oklahoma. Out
of Putnam City West. We signed her late. She is five foot ten very similar to
this young lady here. She's a lot more physical. Morenike was a freshman. She
finishes well. She got improve on outside shot. Right now, we have both of
them playing small forward position. But Gant will probably go in and play the
high post position as well, just because she's a scoring machine inside. Next
young lady is Brittany Toran out of Humble. I think finished second in the
state last year, just one of those kids a complete player. She's not the
fastest kid. She just makes things happen. She knows how to pass the ball. I
have got to get a little mustard off her passes right now because everything
is an eye pass right now. I got to get her to learn what a simple pass is. And
she's going to be a good ballplayer with us in time now. I have signed so
many. The young lady from the Dallas area Ashley Horton, 6 foot one post
played for Cedar Hill, just looks like a ballplayer. If you were a mom or dad
you'd say my gosh that kid looks like she's is ready to play ball. A little
bit bigger than Tweety here. We need to get in the weight room. Get a little
better with the basketball. She's really going to help us. How much this year,
hopefully not as much. Only because I like the kids that are in front of her
right now. Hopefully, she's improves by getting better behind the kids that
are a little bit older in her career. We have got time to wait on her. She's
got the furthest to go on the freshman class of being ready to play.



Q. Morenike, what do you think with your position change and also your
thoughts on the team as a hole?



MORENIKE ATUNRASE: On the team. As far as my position change, I am really
excited. Last year, I was kind of frightened by it and I guess because I
realized I wasn't ready to step up. All of my life I have been this tall since
I was in middle school. I have no choice but to play the post. And thank you.
He put me back at the forward. I have got to adjust to that. This summer, I
played in USA team and I had an opportunity to see what I needed to work on
and work on my outside shot. So I am really excited about that. And Megan is
more happening at the three position, and opening have the outside looks for
the post position also.



Q. Could you -- would you say that throughout the league that the newcomers
that are coming in would have more of a factor and how the conference race
goes and maybe previous years if you agree with that? Would you elaborate?



COACH GARY BLAIR: Hold on. I think we graduated a lot of good players out of
league last year. So the freshman that are coming in are going to have the
opportunity to play just like my freshman had the opportunity to play last
year. A lot of it depends on needs, not the talent, not the freshman. Like
when you look at on paper, I would say on paper, Texas had the No. 1
recruiting class. Oklahoma had the No. 2 recruiting class. Not in conference,
in the nation. So you are looking at big time All-Americans that played on all
the USA teams. They're expected to play and produce right away. On paper, we
had the third best recruiting class in the Big 12. But then you look at Kansas
class and Baylor's class and Texas Tech class they were all good. This you
have got to have the opportunity to play. That is one the reasons a lot of
young lady's want to come to Texas A&M.; In today's world, whether it's the
pro league or whatever, kids want the opportunity to play early in their
career. And I think that's important. And instead of kids all going and lining
up at one particular institution, kids are spreading out all over the country
right now and there is so much parity out there and that's for the game. It
was tremendous for the game that Baylor and Michigan State were in the finals
of the championship last year and there might have been only been one great
All American on both teams combined and a lot of great All Americans were
sitting at home. That's good for our game right now. This kid right here was
not All American. She should have been, if they would have done their
homework. But they didn't. And all of a sudden they get an opportunity to
play. And all of a sudden kids graduating at Texas and Baylor and Oklahoma
right now, you have got kids ready to step up. But this is deepest recruiting
class that the Big 12 has ever had top to bottom. These freshman are going to
come in and play. Sometimes not out of necessity, like my kids did last year,
they're going to play just because they're just damn good. They're going to
move some of those older kids to the side lines. You have got to make room for
these new kids.



Q. Can you give update on Katie Pounds and maybe what your expectations for
her are this season?



COACH GARY BLAIR: Katie came last year. I don't know what you are supposed to
say. Drew you might have to help me on this one. Katie came last year a Double
A player of the year in the state of Texas, Shallowater, Texas. Like most
women and a lot of us guys when you get to college, you put on the freshman
15, whether you want to or not. Is that politically correct, Drew. Okay. I did
and that's why my career ended at 128 pound center fielder, but I didn't put
it on. All of a sudden, she thought she needed those pounds to play the high
post position. She played behind Morenike. All of a sudden, you put on too
much weight and you do not have the flexibility or do what you do best and
what Katie can do best is shoot the ball. She's the best shooter we have on
team. Over the summer, she lost 28 pounds. Now, she's moved her outside and
she's going to play both the two and a three position for us. So sometimes
that's going to help you. She looks good. She shooting the ball well. She's
had that oral surgery where she just got back competitively. Last year, one of
our men's practice players knocked her tooth out. Picture a freshman knocking
her tooth out. I mean clean baby. It's just clean. It's flying across the
floor and you are a beautiful young lady in your freshman year and that
happens to you, so we have had to go through this for almost eight months of
getting all the oral surgery back and making sure she's not catching one of
Morenike's elbows or whatever and getting her back ready to go. But we expect
her to come in and run a lot of set plays that we ran for Castille last year
because she's a true shooter. She's got better defensively. Most young kids
do, but we never recruit a player for her defense ability. It's our job to
teach them on play defense. We recruit them or offense first and overall
athleticism and then we teach them defense our way.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 13, 2005

  

### [Bob Knight](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15563)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH BOB KNIGHT: I think from our standpoint I think that we made a couple of
plays at the end that weren't good. Oklahoma State made a couple of plays that
were good at the end. But that wasn't the difference for us. The difference
for us was the first half when we had 14 turnovers and that just put us in a
bind to start with. I think that we came back in the second half. As a coach
you have got to really be pleased for kids and with kids that get down as we
did, 10 or 11 in the second half and come back and get the game in a position
where now if we make the right plays we can win the game. Well, at the end,
they made better plays than we did at the end and consequently we ended up
getting beat. But I think for us, in looking at this game and trying to
improve upon what we had to improve upon relative to really putting ourselves
in this game the way we wanted to be, it would pretty much center in the first
half. I think that we were able to -- you know, it's statistically a pretty
even game and if you just go by statistics, as I said, a couple of plays they
made at the end that were good; a couple we made that weren't, were the
difference in the ballgame in the final analysis, but not the difference for
us in terms of how we played over the course of the game. The first half was
just not good for us.



Q. What do you think it was in the first half that had your team out of sync?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: We just turned the ball over. It's not a miracle. We just
turned the ball over. We made bad passes.



Q. Where do you think your team deserves to be seeded in the regionals?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: I have no idea. I am not on the tournament committee.



Q. Can you talk about the collective job that Jarrius and Ronald did in this
tournament?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: Well, I think that our guard play has been a strength for us
all year long. I have never really particularly wanted a team to revolve
around guards, but that's where we were. I think those two kids and Tanner
Marshall coming in from time to time, Zeno as a third perimeter player, really
carried us. And I think that they obviously did a really good job in the
ballgame today with the exception of some turnovers, not getting the ball
where it had to go, but I think our guards have been very, very good, not just
in this tournament but over the course of the entire season.



Q. Do you think the last three games kind of got you ready for the tournament
from where you were when the regular season ended?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: Oh, not necessarily. Think we would be far better ready for
the tournament if we have rested. I think anybody would be. Okay?

_

THE MODERATOR: Okay, coach, thank you.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 13, 2005

  

### [Joey Graham](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14320)

### [John Lucas](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14318)

### [Eddie Sutton](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14500)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We're joined by the Oklahoma State Cowboys students John Lucas
and Joey Graham. Questions for our student athletes.

_ 

Q. Joey, three straight games you guys played down to the last shot, up three,
other team can tie, you hadn't played a lot of tight games all year. Can this
kind of situation help you prepare you for the NCAA?



JOEY GRAHAM: It definitely does help us. In a tournaments there's always going
to be close games unless you just sit down and buckle up and just blow a team
out. Down the stretch, especially in the NCAA tournament there are going to be
close games. It definitely prepares us for some of the close games down the
road.



Q. Joey, you're named tournament M.V.P. Have you ever had a game though where
you had seven turnovers and got a reward for it?



JOEY GRAHAM: Never had seven turnovers in my life. It's a learning experience
for me. I definitely won't make that mistake again, Coach Sutton.

COACH EDDIE SUTTON: Good. (Laughter)

_

THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Coach Sutton.

_ 

Q. This building has seen a lot of big basketball games. This is probably the
last Big 12 tournament game in this building. Is there any sort of a special
feeling that you will take from winning that last game here?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: Well, this building has had some great basketball games
going back to the Big 8 and the Big 12. It's probably more meaningful to me
than maybe it is to the players, but it's seen some great games. I know our
fans have always loved coming to Kansas City and we have had some good fortune
here especially this year because -- what they did the last two years, these
guys, they won -- out of the four things that are important in a conference,
we won three of them. Two tournament games in the regular season last year and
we stubbed our toe, maybe we could have at least tied for it this year, but
Kansas City has always been a wonderful place to come. Our fans love to come
here. I think some of us as coaches maybe are excited. I tried to lobby the
best I could to get that new arena, but this arena has been good for the
Cowboys. It's been good for college basketball.



Q. Talk about the doubt of course you went through in the second half coming
out of that. That speaks well for you guys persevering and coming through?



JOHN LUCAS: Coach kept telling us in the huddle that our shots are going to
fall. We were in a drought, seemed like somebody just put a lid over the goal.
We was missing lay-ups and also jump shots that was wide open. Coach just told
us don't get frustrated, keep playing and your shots will fall. It did when it
counted.



Q. Did you guys feel that the game, when you were up 10, 51-41, seemed to be a
moment where you didn't score, they didn't score, if you could have gotten a 3
you could have pushed them over and instead they went on a big run?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: You are exactly right. There was a two-, three-minute
period that neither team could score. We thought if we can get it to 15, I
think we were up 11, maybe at that time, that you know, we could break the
game. But the ball didn't go down then we quit playing defense and continued
to foul them. That was one of the biggest keys in the game is don't foul those
guys. They are as good a free throw shooting ball club as any team in college
basketball. I think they outscored us 17 to 2. It's been a long time since a
team scored that many points and we only got one field goal. But we didn't
play a good game. That's not to take anything away from Texas Tech because I
knew Bob would have his team fever pitched because they have won two good
games up here and beaten two times before. That doesn't happen to him very
often. We turned the ball over way too many times. We didn't shoot the ball
well. Biggest thing was our defense wasn't very good. Wasn't anything like
Kansas -- I am not sure the game didn't take a little bit out of both of us.
When you play a third game in a short turnaround sometimes you are not as
sharp.



Q. As many times as you told the players you thought the shots were going to
fall were you starting to doubt? That's 10 --



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: I was more concerned about getting some stops. I mean, get
17 points on you, and you only get one bucket, I knew we couldn't win. I kept
saying we did some stops. The ball will start dropping for us but we have got
to stop them. I am really proud of the ball club because when they got up 6
and they had all the momentum going for them, it would have been easy to say,
boy, this just isn't our day. They just played a lot of poise and a lot of
courage and fought back and I think that goes back to having a mature
basketball team and to have been in some tough games before the last two
years. So I am really proud of the ball club for pulling out of that tailspin
and walking away with the Championship.



Q. Coach Knight said his team, even though they made it to the Final, would
have benefited more by resting. How much does winning the tournament benefit
you guys going into the NCAA's?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: I hope the fellows in Indianapolis will see fit to stay a
little closer to home. And maybe we get to go to Oklahoma City. I think even
though they all probably, in all likelihood, have the spots filled that's one
of the disadvantages of having our game on Sunday afternoon because they
probably already have those seedings pretty much in place regardless of
whether we would have won or whether we would have lost.



Q. Noting your concerns coming in and the way your guys have played these last
few days you are going to get some rest. In general how do you feel about this
team now as the big tournament approaches?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: Well, I think we need some rest. That's why I think the
tournament doesn't start in Oklahoma City until Friday if I am not mistaken.
That would give us sometime where the guys can just have a couple of days off.
This is spring break, so they don't have the responsibility of classes and I
think that would help us a lot. We're not playing that many people. I know
they are tired. I know our coaching staff is tired. So if we play like we did
against Kansas yesterday we can play with most people in the country. I don't
think there's anybody that we would fear. But there's a lot of teams just as
good as us.



Q. John, after you missed that first free throw how much of a weight off you
was to hit that second one?



JOHN LUCAS: It was a lot. Coach and them they wanted me to go back and get the
ball and because they know I am not a (inaudible) -- I was more disappointed
in myself missing the first one, but you know, once I hit the second one coach
and them were like don't worry about it now, we need to get a stop. That was
our whole concern to make sure we got a stop and get the rebound.

COACH EDDIE SUTTON: We had a luxury of having two great free throw shooters. I
don't know what we shot in the Big 12 but it's some unbelievable. I think it
was 112 of 117 those guys shot. So you know, late in the game when the game is
tight you want as best you can to get the ball in the hands of Joey or John.
That doesn't mean we don't have a couple of other guys, but I think they have
all the confidence in the world to step up there and hit that shot every time.



Q. Eddie, can you expand on of course playing Oklahoma City would be a great
thing, you have done well of course back east, and perhaps maybe two Big 12
teams should get to go to Oklahoma City - your thoughts just overall?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: I think that that was pretty much the thinking all along
that we would probably get two teams to Oklahoma City. I hope that's true. You
are right, we have had great success going back playing in the Meadowlands,
and playing in Philly and some of those places; so if we get shipped east --
only -- I don't care where we go, the advantage is having your fans,
especially college students where it's so expensive to travel where they can
stay closer to home and you get those youngsters get to go to the games.



Q. Joey, between you and Oklahoma State, Oklahoma and Kansas, any one of you
proved who the better team is in the Big 12?



JOEY GRAHAM: Well, we all are compatible in a lot of ways. But I think that
this tournament proved, out of the teams, who persevered out of it. But I have
a feeling that Oklahoma, Kansas, all those teams are going to do great in the
NCAA tournaments so good luck to all those teams.

COACH EDDIE SUTTON: I think the three teams are pretty even. We split with
Oklahoma. Split with Kansas. The two games with Kansas, whole game out at
Field House in the second half, yesterday, that's as good a quality basketball
as two teams can play. That was a great game for anybody that got to see it.
If you were neutral that was a great game to watch.

_

THE MODERATOR: Congratulations on your victory today and good luck in the NCAA
tournament.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [Kelvin Sampson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13715)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, your thoughts on today's game.

_

COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: I thought Texas Tech had that one stretch in the second
half where they separated from us and our kids got it back to 62-58. I didn't
think we played with as much zip, as much energy. Obviously our defense wasn't
as good as the last time we played them. But like Coach Knight said about the
other two games, we didn't play very good in Norman and they didn't play very
good in Lubbock. Today I guess it was our turn. We didn't play very good.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions now for Coach Sampson.

_ 

Q. I know you don't like to lose, but is this you know, with this tournament
being kind of a physical toll, three games in three days, can this possibly
help you next week?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: We're going to try it look at it that way. It's a long
season. We have been through a lot of these tournaments and we're going to go
back home tonight, I think we got a flight leaving in a few hours. We get to
take Sunday off now. We will probably take Monday off too because we entered
the regular season, two straight road trips then we had to come right here,
but we're going to get excited about playing next week. This team has won 24
out of their last 31 games. Texas Tech deserved to win that game. We didn't,
but we're looking forward to next week.



Q. Do you think you squandered a chance to go to the Ford Center or do you
think you still have a good shot?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: There's three teams, only two can go. Whoever loses this
game you can ask them the same question. We won the regular season, we were
the number one seed, we shared the regular season. We were the one seed, so we
have that going for us. Somebody is going to be in the same boat in two more
hours as we're right now.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [Aaron Miles](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14358)

### [Bill Self](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13713)

### [Wayne Simien](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16324)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH BILL SELF: I thought it was a fabulous game. I thought both teams played
very well. We defended them great early and probably played better going down
one at half-time than the score indicated because I thought we really defended
well for the majority of the first half, but they have got balance and they
are hard to guard and certainly did a very good job executing, but it was one
of the best games of the season that I have been a part of and isn't that far
behind the first game three weeks ago.



Q. Aaron, did you all have options on that last shot or was that what you were
looking for?



AARON MILES: We had options. We had just ran the same play previously. J.R.
got the shot and this time we just tried to a different option for Alex to get
the shot. He had a good look at it. It was a good shot.



Q. Can you guys just talk about what it was like not having Keith here today
and how much that affected the outcome?



AARON MILES: Obviously Keith is a big part of this team. When the offense gets
stagnant he can always go make a play, get a basket for us, that's something
we miss. But I think other people on this team stepped up and did different
things, you know, which helped us out. Not having Keith is not the reason why
we lost, but I think that if we did have Keith the game would have been
different.



Q. Wayne, would you kind of sum up the end of your season and what you expect
now in the tournament, how you all are going into it mentally and where you
feel your seeding may fall?



WAYNE SIMIEN: As far as the seeding standpoint, you know, it's really no
telling, you know, brackets, or anything like that, you just have to wait and
see tomorrow. I think we picked up a little bit of momentum these last two
games. Even though a loss is a loss, I thought that we played hard tonight and
did some things well. But there's still a few things that we need to tweak and
tune to make sure that we're prepared for next weekend and the weeks to come.



Q. Wayne, can you talk about you guys came close but didn't get a Big 12
tournament. Talk about how that feels and possibly how it shapes your mindset
going into the NCAA tournament?



WAYNE SIMIEN: It's tough winning the Big 12 tournaments, was one of the goals
that we had set for ourselves the beginning of the year. Being a senior, not
being able to cut down nets here in Dallas is something that we would have
liked to have been a part of but once again, not winning those tournaments but
still being successful in the tournament, you know, we know that this
tournament here doesn't shape our future and next week's tournament we're
going to go into next week with a positive mindset and with the goal in our
mindset of winning that one.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Self now.

_ 

Q. When Oklahoma State made sort of the second second half run, the one after
Bobik hit the threes when Graham started to get his own shot -- is the fact
that he's such a difficult match-up, how much of a factor was that?



COACH BILL SELF: He was their best offense obviously, for a four-, five-minute
period. They had great balance but he took the game over from an offensive
standpoint for them during that stretch. He's a tough match-up for anybody
because he's a legitimate 2, 3 at 6'7", and can really handle and can shoot
and you got to put a big guy on him. So at least we feel like you do. I think
he certainly played really big during that stretch. Christian, I thought did
probably a little bit better job defending him at Lawrence than we did today.
C.J. obviously was our best defender on him because of his length. But he was
terrific. You had two fabulous players playing today, I mean, both teams got
really good players but two players played to their level today.



Q. Your options, your thoughts on the last shot. Obviously J.R. hit a big one
to keep you all in it. What were you look --



COACH BILL SELF: It's the same exact play, so we run a hand-off into a stagger
for J.V. then a pin-in for Alex. We weren't going to get J.R. again. So they
made the right play throwing it to the Alex. Alex is a terrific shooter. He
got a great look. I mean with ten seconds left you got to go full court. You
can get off a good look like that, that was pretty well executed; the ball
just didn't go in.



Q. You guys have kind of brought out the best in each other these last two
weeks, you and Oklahoma State; what is it about? Is it a match-up deal or why
do you guys play so well and execute so well against each other?



COACH BILL SELF: I should ask Coach Sutton why they play so well against us.
(Laughter) He told me after the game, he said, this is, you know, these two
games is probably as well as they played all year, and I feel the same way
too. I don't know. I don't know what it is. Our strength in some ways is their
weakness, you know, and their strength in some ways is our weakness, you know,
with their perimeter quickness, things like that. Plus they have as tough a
match-up as there is in college basketball. So both teams are stubborn and
play man-to-man and, you know, in that respect. I mean we're going to play man
the majority of time. Of course coach is going to play man the majority of the
time. So you get a chance to play the way that you practice each and every
day. But I mean, it was -- they bring out, I mean I don't know about bringing
out the best in each other, but certainly the level of play has been awfully
high when these two teams get together.



Q. Can you talk about JamesOn Curry and how much he's come on and how
difficult he is to defend?



COACH BILL SELF: I think JamesOn has an unbelievably bright future. He's
terrific. There's a lot of freshman in our league that have got some exposure
going into the season that are really good players. This league has got some
great freshman. I don't talk to the NBA people but I would think from a
prospect future he has got height, he has got quickness, strength, he's
explosive, and of course he's one of the few guys he can get it off the catch
and off the bounce. I think -- from my personal opinion they are much harder
to guard when he's in the game playing three guards with Joey at the four then
maybe playing three big guys.



Q. I know you never want to lose, but can losing a game like this and an extra
days rest come out and help you?



COACH BILL SELF: That's what we will tell our guys. Whether we believe it or
not, that's what we will tell them. I do think this: Each time is different.
Sometimes going into a tournament a loss sometimes gets attention, not that we
need to have our -- we haven't played unbelievably well of late so we kind of
had their attention, but I think in some ways we road Wayne pretty hard these
two games and whether or not he would even be able to bounce back and play a
third game like that, so an extra day I know will benefit him. But an extra
day also would have been good for Keith to get him out there and play because
I don't have any hesitation that he -- I mean, he would have played tomorrow
for sure. So he's going to go work out tonight when we get back. But I don't
know if it's positive, negative. I would have rather win and have a chance to
cut down nets tomorrow than obviously go home on Saturday. This is important.
There's no doubt about that but this isn't as important as next week. Anything
to get you better prepared next week is the most important thing and winning
sometimes has a lot to do with being prepared.



Q. Michael and Aaron, one, is there anymore you could have asked from Michael
than what you got last two days?



COACH BILL SELF: No, Mike was fabulous. Mike can do that. He's playing with a
free mind and he was really good yesterday and today he was good in different
ways, he made some shots and attacked the basket. I thought he was great. I
think one thing that we did do, I think one thing that we did do very well the
last two days is we played through our best player more and our best player
made the other players around him better, more so than what we have normally
in the past. I thought Wayne passed the ball very well, I didn't think he
forced things. Of course I thought he was, fabulous, but I think that if we
learned anything the more Wayne touches it good things will happen because a
lot of times we played -- guys benefited from playing off of him but Mike was
great.



Q. I was shocked that Aaron didn't score as much, especially as compared to
what he did yesterday. Do you need him to score more or because Wayne got so
many touches it really is a moot point?



COACH BILL SELF: Well, I think this: You score 75 points you should win. So it
wasn't that we didn't score. It is that we didn't get stops. We didn't rebound
-- and the big thing is we had to score from the field because we didn't get
to the free-throw line much. Oklahoma State did a better job of getting to the
free-throw line obviously. But Aaron is going to take what the defense gives
him. They put certain guys on certain people for reasons. I thought that Aaron
played well. I thought he played well.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [Jarrius Jackson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15060)

### [Bob Knight](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15563)

### [Ronald Ross](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15059)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for our student athletes.

_ 

Q. Was that a little bit of payback for what they did to you all in Lubbock?



RONALD ROSS: It was definitely a good feeling to come back and get this win
tonight against them because we knew they are a good team. If we played we
knew we could compete and have an advantage to win. We just came and played
for 40 minutes tonight and we won. It definitely is a good feeling.

JARRIUS JACKSON: We knew it was going to be an exciting game. We beat them up
there and they beat us at home. This is kind of like the tiebreaker. We knew
everybody was going to come out and be ready to play.



Q. What was the difference in this game than a week ago?



RONALD ROSS: We just kind of stuck with our game plan. Last week, I mean, they
went off, they started shooting threes, making shots. We just started taking
quick shots. We were just really just giving the game away. So we just kept
things under control. We made the shots and shot the shots that we were
capable of shooting. It really turned out good for us.



Q. What is the key in defending their guards?



RONALD ROSS: The key is like you want to make sure you get into them really
because they are really good shooters. So I mean, if you don't get into them
and you give them any room they are going to be knock it down and make you pay
for it.



Q. What was the biggest point of emphasis at half-time? Was it them crashing
the boards and getting 10 offensive rebounds or what did you talk about mainly
at half-time?



RONALD ROSS: Yeah, I think rebounds played a big part of it. It was a matter
of us like the guards not getting driven over the top into the middle, just
not opening up things for them. We came out the second half and tried to
eliminate some of the mistakes that we made in the first half.



Q. How big was the contribution by Damir today especially with Darrel getting
in foul trouble?



JARRIUS JACKSON: I think Damir played, came up big this game. He had to play
their toughest guy in the post. I think he came up big.



Q. You barely took a shot in the first ten minutes of the game. Were you
having trouble getting into the flow or were they defending you well; what
changed that?



RONALD ROSS: I just -- I realized I needed to get more involved, just cutting
and moving, trying to set scenes, not being like standing around and watching
the action. It's stuff that coach always tells me that I need to move and
screen. I really wanted to be active and I think it really helped me in the
second half.



Q. Everett ended up with some pretty good numbers. It seemed like you made him
work for his points. What was the approach going into the game against him?



RONALD ROSS: Well, I knew I was going to be guarding him so I wanted to just
play really intense D on him because he's a really good player he can make a
lot of things happen. So I mean we didn't let him get off and score like a
spree of points like back to back to back, if he scores like every now and
then, so it was really just trying to contain him and make him give it up.



Q. It's been a while for you guys, nice to win back-to-back games?



JARRIUS JACKSON: Yeah, it feels kind of good right now to be in the
Championship game tomorrow. We're going to come out ready to play. Be excited
for it.

RONALD ROSS: Yeah, it is a great feeling to win back-to-back. If you keep
winning, winning is a great feeling, I hope we can just keep it going.



Q. You guys were picked 7th or worse in the conference here, you are in the
finals. Why do you think the people including the writers tend to underrate
you?



RONALD ROSS: With the loss of Andre he scored a lot for us, he's a big part of
Texas Tech over the years, so I mean with him leaving people probably didn't
know what we could do. We came out and listened to coach, played as a team. It
really doesn't change as long as you have got players that are able to be
coached and execute the things that everybody wants to be done. I think that
has helped us during the whole year.



Q. Considering you guys don't play a lot of people, will you have enough
energy for a third game tomorrow?



RONALD ROSS: We have got to have energy for a third game. That's what we came
here for, to play here on Sunday and be in that title game. It's just a great
opportunity for us so hopefully we will take advantage of it.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Knight.

_

COACH BOB KNIGHT: I think as I mentioned after the game yesterday one of the
things we discussed at the half was although yesterday we had 12 turnovers and
today we had 7 in the first half, we talked about how much we improved our
play in the second half yesterday by cutting down on our turnovers. We ended
up in the second half today with just one turnover. That gave us a real
opportunity to score with possessions. One of the things, and I think I
mentioned this also yesterday, that has been difficult for us is just plain
getting the ball in the basket. We get it around the bucket a lot and we don't
get it in and I know when -- with about minute to play or whatever when
Jackson missed a lay-up and it got back -- got back to him, and I kind of said
thanks to the superior being looking over basketball, and when he missed the
second one I think the superior being of basketball looked over at me and gave
me the finger. When he missed the second one, I thought, boy, we got the break
there. We ended up with two after missing. We still didn't get it. So anyhow,
that would be the negative part of our play. I just wished that we could when
we had the chance to get it in around the bucket, get it in. I think that
again it was a game just like yesterday's game where I think both teams played
very hard defensively. Points did not come easy with one or two exceptions.
Both teams had to really work for them. I thought the biggest basket of the
game was when we were up 7 and Everett hit that 3 because now if we can get
the ball back with a 7-point lead and a chance to go up 9 then we have got a
chance to end the game and boy -- and he actually, I thought, had to go up off
balance. We had a lot of pressure on him. It was a heck of a shot that he
made, and then that put it back into a situation where we have got to make
some plays to be able to win. And we did. Part of our not losing the ball
ended up in our having a chance, each of our last several possessions to shoot
two free throws. And probably we ended up during that period of time making
like out of two we probably made one and a half or 1.6 or 7, something like
that. So that was a real key for us at the end. When we played a week ago
today, they just blitzed us to start the second half. And made it very tough
for us. In fact, didn't allow us at any point in the second half to get back
in the ballgame. We were one down last week and we were 3 down at the half
today and we really discussed about trying to just stay with it until we can
get to the end and have a chance to win. So I am really pleased for these kids
and they have done a lot of things, I think, this year. Certainly getting into
the Championship game tomorrow is among them. Even with that, I was talking a
little bit before the game and there's no greater opponent of post-season
conference tournaments than I am or will there ever be. But it's here and we
played right from the very beginning. When the brackets were set up we talked
to our team about playing on Sunday. We said you have got a chance to play on
Sunday if you play well. You are going to have to play well. You are going to
be playing two good teams. You have got to play well and yet our goal is to
play on Sunday. So as much as I hate these tournaments, I am glad that we got
a chance to play on Sunday.



Q. You guys seemed to play a lot faster, pushed the ball up more in transition
the second half. Was that by design or is that just something your guards
felt?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: I think that they did a little bit more full court pick-up
in the second half than they did in the first half. We wanted to get down
right from the beginning and we didn't do a very good job of it in the first
half. We wanted to play quick with patience. In the second half I think we
were probably afforded more opportunities to play quickly than we were in the
first half because of their full court pick-up and particularly in the last
eight or nine minutes of the game. I think that again, playing against the
kind of pressure that they can exert handling the ball the way that we did,
was a really, really positive thing for us.



Q. Oklahoma had 10 offensive boards the first half and only two in the second.
Was rebounding a real point of emphasis at half-time?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: Yeah, I mentioned, I think, rather subtly, that if anybody
gave up an offensive rebound in the second half they'd be shot. (Laughter)
message seemed to get through and don't have to shoot anybody.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [JamesOn Curry](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13902)

### [Joey Graham](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14320)

### [John Lucas](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14318)

### [Eddie Sutton](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14500)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH EDDIE SUTTON: The two games we have had with Kansas, I have coached a
long time, they are two of the best, two teams really played hard with a lot
of intensity. Great defense yet there weren't that many turnovers. The thing
we have when we play Kansas, there's a lot of respect for each other and
there's no trash-talking. That's the way the game used to be played, that's
the way it ought to be played. When you play a game like that, win or lose,
you can walk away and say, boy, that was a great college basketball game. Our
team has not been playing that well, but they certainly did today. When you
only turn the ball over four times or five times, turn over four times in the
first half, because Kansas plays excellent defense and our guys really rose up
today and competed and I have had a lot of disappointment on my birthday, but
today is one I will never forget. 69 years old today and that was a great
present for these guys to play like they did.

_

THE MODERATOR: Let's go to questions now for our three student athletes.

_ 

Q. John and Joey, would both of you kind of amplify on Coach Sutton's comment
as to how important this was for your guys confidence going into the NCAA
tournament to win a game like this?



JOHN LUCAS: He told us from the jump we need to come out with a lot more
energy. We was kind of flat yesterday in the Colorado game and they jumped out
on us. So our energy was there, Kansas started off great. You couldn't ask for
more from those players to score like that. Coach said we needed to get this
win, just so we get our confidence back and we have the momentum going into
the tournament also helped us out when the NCAA for the seedings because we
still want to stay close to home.

JOEY GRAHAM: This is pretty much what college basketball is about, if you
can't get up for a game like this, the atmosphere and all the fans and
excitement of the game, I think it's one of best college basketball games in
the country. Just coming out and being in this environment we thank the Lord
every day for being able to come out here.



Q. Joey, talk about your ability to get the free throw; was that focus?



JOEY GRAHAM: Coach has been on me last couple of weeks about being aggressive
and shooting more free throws because I think coach said before the game that
me and John were 112 for 117 for the conference, so, when he said that that
just told me I got to stay aggressive, get to the free-throw line as many
times as possible, just knock my free throws down.

COACH EDDIE SUTTON: Coach Sutton also told him the team that got to the line
the most is going to win the game.

JOEY GRAHAM: He definitely told us that too.



Q. You had a lot of fans here tonight. Obviously Kansas 20 miles away is going
to have their share. Oklahoma State had a lot as well. With Oklahoma losing,
you guys winning, going to Oklahoma City, how big a deal would that be for you
guys to have that many fans here?



JOHN LUCAS: Great. Our fans has been supporting us all year around. To see
them take the journey with us every time when we lose like when we lost felt
like we let our fans down because they support us, they camp out a week and a
half before the game even is ready to kick off. That just shows you how much
they love their sports and that goes for all sports at Oklahoma State
University. Our fans stuck through everything with us. For us to go out there
and play our hearts out it is almost kind of like saying thank you for them.

COACH EDDIE SUTTON: Somebody at Oklahoma City told me the other day that
Oklahoma State had bought all the tickets at the Ford Center, I hope that's
true.

JOEY GRAHAM: Ditto what John said. The fans are great. I won't trade the fans
for anything in the world. They support us everywhere we went just like they
did last year on our NCAA road, they were everywhere. I think we had the most
fans pretty much everywhere we went in the tournament last year and they are
diehard fans. I think they are going to stick with us 'til the end.

JAMESON CURRY: I agree with that. Also our fans I think are the best six men
in the nation coming from like Gallagher is a small gym, it's so compact and
they are travelling with us all the way to Kansas City. Just shows how much
respect and love they got for us and we got the same for them.



Q. Do these games get any easier the more you play? Were you any more relaxed
than you were two years ago at Lawrence?



JAMESON CURRY: I am not going to say they get more easier but I am learning
the game as the games continue to go on and having a great mentor like Coach
Sutton and being around six seniors helps me out a lot. I am very appreciative
of it.



Q. Do you guys feel you have outlasted Kansas and Oklahoma; do you deserve
that spot in Oklahoma City?



JAMESON CURRY: Kansas is a great team. We leave that up to the committee to
choose. That we know we both work hard, whatever they choose.

COACH EDDIE SUTTON: I would be disappointed if we don't get to go to Oklahoma
City. We have been east 11 out of 12 times. So I don't want them to show
favoritism but I think we earned the right to go to Oklahoma City by winning
this afternoon.



Q. Talk about what you guys were you looking for, anything special on that
last shot?



JOHN LUCAS: We knew that I think when they ran the first play, when we hit the
shot, he came off the double on the baseline and we knew it was going to go
right back to him because he had his momentum. He started to get his
confidence back on his shooting. So coach decided to -- because they were
switching so we just switched at the guard and Daniel being taller than me and
having more arm length, might challenge his shot a little bit more. So it
worked. And me and Joey just made sure we boxed our men out so nobody can get
the rebound back.

COACH EDDIE SUTTON: Kansas had some big time shots there at the end. They were
challenged shots. I thought that last one was in.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions now for coach.

_ 

Q. Last night similar situation up three. Last second you chose to foul
Colorado; did you think about doing it again today?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: We thought about it, but they got the big guy down there.
I was afraid that they'd hit the first one and miss the second one and Simien
would jump up and hit a shot and we would foul him. That's debatable. Coaches
debate that all the time when you are 3-up the last 10 seconds whether you
shoot foul or not. That's the first time we had done that for a long time last
night we played Colorado.



Q. Talk about how much better Joey is when he gets to the free-throw line and
is aggressive like that?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: Our staff has been on Joey. I think I told some of you the
first seven games in conference play he was 45 out of 47 at the line. In the
last part of the season he was 10 out of 12. What that shows is you're
passive, you are not driving the ball and he's such a great free throw shooter
and even until tonight he really hadn't been getting to the line as of much as
we'd like. When he drives the ball he's going to get fouled because he's so
strong and he has got the athletic ability and a lot of times he's going to
get fouled and he's such a great free throw shooter, so we have encouraged
that encouraged that, but sometimes even tonight, and he played a whale of a
game, but he only gets one rebound. So it shows up there too. He's not
rebounding the ball like he needs to for us to continue to win.



Q. How different is Kansas without Langford?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: I think they are still plenty good. I thought those
players that came in, Miles is certainly such a great point guard, but I
thought Lee and Hawkins and Galindo, I thought those guys they are still good
players but there's no doubt if you don't have Langford, they can't be quite
as good. He's a hell of a player.



Q. Joey gets three fouls there in the first 16, 17 minutes how big was that,
he didn't get the fourth?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: You have to be a little more careful when you pick up
three fouls. That third foul you didn't see the whole play and he did foul,
but he was being fouled all the way down the court and I think John just saw
what he did, he kind of shoved the guy off of him. But you get three fouls on
you it takes away some of your aggressiveness.



Q. Seemed like Joey, seemed like sometimes you went through him more today;
was that something you tried to do?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: Well, we felt that if we get the ball to Joey on the high
post area down on the low post, if Kansas didn't come and give support and
help that he was going to beat the people that were covering him because I
didn't think to put Simien on him. I thought that he would be a little bit
more clever and not to take anything away from Moody or any of their other big
guys, that's what we tried to do, get the ball to the high post where he can
drive or get it down to the low block. If Kansas didn't come with another
player I thought we could take advantage of that. I thought there were some
other guys on our team really played well. I thought that Crawford did a
tremendous job. I mean, Simien gets 30 points but I thought Crawford really
did a nice job on him. And the other guy I point out that he doesn't get as
much praise as he needs to is Bobik. I thought he hit some big shots for us
and I thought he defended well.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Aaron Miles](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14358)

### [Bill Self](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13713)

### [Wayne Simien](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16324)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH BILL SELF: It was a great win for us. We haven't played unbelievably
well the majority of the time the last three weeks or so. We needed to come
out and win this game, and we knew it would be a grinded-out game. We knew
that they'd play well. Fortunately we got off to lead. Although we came close
to giving it up, never did. Wasn't pretty, but we had some guys certainly step
up and make some plays at key moments.

_

THE MODERATOR: Let's go to our student athletes for questions.

_ 

Q. Wayne, can you talk about how Aaron stepped up, especially with the absence
of Keith?



WAYNE SIMIEN: Yeah, it was huge. Aaron played great. Overall it was a great
collective effort from our guards, Jeff Hawkins stepped up, did some things,
Darrel was able to knock some shots down, Lee was terrific on the boards. All
those guys stepped up in Keith's absence, it was definitely needed.



Q. Did you get the feeling at all that being up and down lately and then to
have Keith out that you really needed to do something to kind of hold it
together tonight to play well to do that?



WAYNE SIMIEN: I don't think so. I think all we got to do is win. That was the
main focus, you know, those games that we lost, obviously the Mizzou game left
a sour taste in our mouth. But this is a new season, postseason and we
definitely have to press on, you know, to new goals and new things. Absence of
Keith, you know, is definitely something that we didn't want to have happen
but we had to adjust accordingly.

AARON MILES: With the absence of Keith we all got to step up. We know with
Keith being our second scoring option, Wayne has to get more touches. We try
to do that and play off of him. They double down on him and we were able to
get some open looks.



Q. Can you talk about Michael Lee and how he was able to contribute tonight;
he didn't make a field goal but he did so much else out there?



AARON MILES: He did the intangibles. Our coach always talks about we need
players to do that. He had 11 rebounds, I mean, as a guard, 6'2" guard having
11 rebounds, he crashed off the boards, he kept some balls alive if he didn't
get them. He was great, he was terrific, I feel. Though he didn't make shots
he did other things. Just because you don't make shots don't mean you don't
play well. Mike showed that.

_

THE MODERATOR: We will take questions for Coach Self.

_ 

Q. Update on Keith for tomorrow?



COACH BILL SELF: I think Keith could probably play with his foot. I don't
think he will be able to play with his stomach. He has been laid up for three
days now. They have had I.V.'s in him. He got hit pretty hard, so he's still
back in Lawrence, so we hope that he will be here tomorrow but I don't think
he will be in a playing capacity.



Q. You talked a little bit about the impressiveness and magnitude of the
streak -- (inaudible)



COACH BILL SELF: I don't think it was -- I don't really feel a ton of pressure
with it, although losing to Missouri and K State back-to-back wouldn't sit
well with a lot of folks I know pretty well. So I knew that we had to play
well. But it wasn't play to keep the streak going, it was play to get better
and set ourselves up better for next week to be quite honest with you.



Q. Bill, you talk a little bit about as a coach the intangibles guys have to
do. Talk about what Michael Lee did tonight without even making a field goal?



COACH BILL SELF: Mike is one of those guys that we need Mike to play and when
he's good he's really good. But he'd be the first to tell you, he's been way
too inconsistent. He has some big games, the double figures and the five
rebounds and the four, five assists and guard great. And he has some games
where he's not a factor. With Keith out he has to be a factor. Certainly he
found a way to impact the game today without making shots, and that, to me,
that's a sign of good players that are able to do that. If Wayne gets enough
touches and J.R. didn't shoot it great tonight, but J.R. will make shots.
Those guys will probably be our to two primary options with Keith out and then
Aaron stepped up, made some plays. We really didn't need Mike to make some
shots. What we needed him to do is do what he did.



Q. You mentioned playing to set yourselves up for next week to play better.
Did you do that? Did you accomplish that? When you get Keith back do you think
it will be an added thing?



COACH BILL SELF: I think until we got into foul situations our defense was
pretty good. First ten minutes our defense was terrific. And then we kind of
weren't as good. Of course our offense was better because we were running off
of misses; then they didn't miss. I think so there were some signs there, our
zone is still not very good and that's my fault. But we did some good things
out of that. But I would grade us out pretty decent tonight except for
unforced errors. We had careless turnovers. We started the game off, we are up
23 to 8 or something like that, if I am not mistaken, we had three of the
first possessions were turnovers and two of them were baskets. We had a chance
really to play well early and turnovers kept us from doing that.



Q. Could you talk about your decision to go with Alex Galindo down the stretch
during that long stretch second half?



COACH BILL SELF: With Keith being out, you know, we kind of need some offense
and at least potential offense and he's the best offensive player. He has a
knack for getting the ball in the basket. We give up some things, rebounding
and stuff like that and we had to play zone with Alex in the game, but we
thought that was better. The reason that the other big guys didn't play didn't
-- wasn't having anything to do with other than the fact they played small
with Cartier at the 4. They played zone and Alex is better at the zone. Even
though we kind of have to piece things together, that's the one advantage of
having some different pieces, that you can put some guys in there based on how
the game is going.



Q. Probably recognizing they would play zone and not having Langford, that
slashing ability, did you anticipate a game where you'd shoot this many three-
pointers, more than half your shots?



COACH BILL SELF: I knew we would shoot a lot of 3s. I did. I didn't know it
would be that many. Basically we got the ball a dub (sic) basically, but shot
a 3, for the most part; which isn't a bad formula if you are able to make 40%
of them; which we did. But we probably shot too many 3s. The thing that their
zone did is spread and we didn't drive it. Of course Keith could have been
very effective the way they spread their zone out. We played on our heals the
last two minutes of the first half. Other than that -- we also got to the
point we're playing not to lose and I think with that you lose a lot of
aggressiveness sometimes.



Q. You played Jeff Hawkins a lot early. Can you talk about his contributions
tonight and also his progress over the last couple of months?



COACH BILL SELF: With Keith out positively he's our fourth guard or our first
guard off the bench, and Jeff's played well of late. Of course he played well
again tonight; maybe should have played him more the second half and rested
Aaron or whatever, but I am real pleased with Jeff. Jeff has played well and
he's become a very good player. I think he will have a huge senior -- a big,
big senior year for us. But he is going to impact this team even when Keith
comes back. I feel so much more confident with him and he feels more confident
to go out there and play not to make mistakes.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Jarrius Jackson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15060)

### [Bob Knight](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15563)

### [Ronald Ross](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15059)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We will conduct our interviews with our student athletes first;
then we will come back for Coach Knight. Let's go to questions now for our
student athletes.

_ 

Q. Ronald or Jarrius, what was the team's thought process, what were you
thinking when it's 50 to 42? Seemed like you couldn't buy a basket in terms of
what you had to do to come back and get the win.



RONALD ROSS: We just wanted to stay to the game plan because in the past we
know that we get down a little bit, we get out of character of our team, so I
mean, we just wanted to keep doing what coach wanted us to do and handle the
ball and just try to execute offense.



Q. What did you do to shut Homan down about the last 10, 12 minutes of the
game? He had been getting inside pretty easy the first half.



JARRIUS JACKSON: At halftime we were just concentrating on our help defense
and we would just had to rotate down whenever you get the ball. Whenever he
kicked it out everybody just rotated down.

RONALD ROSS: Like Jay said, we had to make sure we adjusted and rotated where
we were supposed to rotate. Then Devonne Giles, he went out there, he was
battling Homan so that really helped us out too.



Q. Ronald, you got Oklahoma next. There were two games that were so different.
Especially with the road team win.



RONALD ROSS: We came ready to play in Norman and we didn't show up to when we
played them at our house. Each of us showed up. That was the difference, to
play when the other team didn't. That was the difference in us winning and
losing.



Q. It's another Saturday, there's a possibility you are going to be wearing
black; does that scare you all because in the past you all had a little bit of
a problem with that on the weekends .



RONALD ROSS: No, wearing black is definitely not an issue. We're going to come
out ready to play. We know Oklahoma is one of the best teams in the country.
They are an extremely good team. So we will come out ready to play regardless
of what we wear.



Q. You guys think that 22 to 4 run at the end of the game was one of your
better stretches of basketball this season?



RONALD ROSS: Definitely one of our better runs in post-season. I mean, we made
a little good run, we was able to control it and keep it in our favor.



Q. Ronald, what was the key to that run, anything in particular that you guys
did?



RONALD ROSS: We got a couple of steals on the defensive end and then we got
some rebounds then we just went down and executed. So I mean that was just a
matter of us going down there and making, you know, the best of everything
that we got.



Q. When you picked up your fourth foul, still a lot of time to go in the game,
did you adjust the way you played at all?



RONALD ROSS: Yeah, because I was guarding Stinson so I had to guard Carr. He's
not as aggressive as Stinson is. I was just trying to play smart and just stay
in there and try to help my team the best that I could.



Q. Ronald, during that late run it looked like their defense wasn't quite as
ferocious as they were early on in the game. Could you tell if they were
getting a little tired maybe?



RONALD ROSS: It was definitely not as intense as they usually are because they
played that full court defense like nobody else in the country. They are
really good at that. They can make a lot of things happen for them. We
definitely saw a little change in that and I think our team went out there and
stayed aggressive and I think we made some good things happen.



Q. Seems like through most of this season this team, kind of guys as you two
go, you take turns of taking control of games. Is this team going to go as far
in the post-season as you guys can take it?



JARRIUS JACKSON: I still think it's going to come from everybody on the team,
even the ones that don't get as much playing time. I think everybody is going
to have to contribute in some way for us to continue to win.

RONALD ROSS: I agree. Everybody does little things, whether or not me and Jay
just scored, we got people that rebound, play defense, we all have to do the
things that we're supposed to do and the thing I think is going to help us
with success in the post-season, we just stick with Coach Knight's game plan
and keep that approach for 40 minutes.

_

THE MODERATOR: Congratulations. We will take questions for Coach Knight. Your
thoughts about the game.

_

COACH BOB KNIGHT: I think if there was a key to the game for us, it was the
fact that we had 12 turnovers in the first half, we committed three or four of
them in the last minute of the first half. Then in the second half we had
three turnovers. So we had a lot more opportunities to score in the second
half than we did in the first half and we did a much better job with the
basketball in the second half than we did the first half. The game was really
a game of spirt with only one fairly even stretch in the whole ballgame -
actually two, we started out with a fairly even back and forth; then we got up
by 10, so we have a spirt. Then Iowa State comes back and almost ties it at
the half. Their spirt. Then we play a little while in the second half, similar
to the start of the ballgame with both teams going back and forth. All of a
sudden Iowa State is up by 10 like we were in the first half. That has not
been a great spot over the season for us to be in. We have on occasion come
back when we have gotten down like that, but not as nearly as well as we did
today nor probably against as good a team. That was -- I think that our coming
back to be able to win the ballgame was a real highlight in the play and the
competitiveness of our players for the season, I think. Were you just thanking
me for being here or for that brilliant discourse I just gave?

_

THE MODERATOR: Both, Coach.

_

COACH BOB KNIGHT: Thank you, I appreciate that. I didn't mean to interrupt
you.



Q. As you go into Sunday, selection Sunday, does this conference deserve to
get six teams in and where do you think Iowa State fits in?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: I think it does. Don't get me started on the NCAA tournament
because what I have said in the past is and the thing that I don't like about
it, and I may be in a minority of one in America, but this is not the U.S.
Open where you absolutely have to qualify to get there. Like I -- Oral
Roberts, 25 and 5 or something and they lose one game in the tournament and
they are not in this tournament. I think there's something wrong with that. I
think that there should be - I have always said this - there should be
restrictions on the percentage of games a team has won to get into this
tournament. I think there are teams that -- this will not be and never is the
best 64 teams in America. I have never been able to get anybody to pay any
attention to that as long as I have been in coaching, but I think this should
be the best 64 teams in the country, period, regardless of who wins what
conference or where or what or anything. It's The Masters; not the U.S. Open.
There will be teams and I can take the brackets on Sunday night and I will
guarantee you that I can match 20 teams in the NIT against 20 teams in the
NCAA and the NIT will win all 20 games. I have no doubt about that and I have
thought about that as long as I have been in coaching. Anybody got an easier
question? (Laughter) One I can answer yes or no?



Q. Coach, what about Darryl starting, what is his status?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: Because I didn't think he should.



Q. Not injury-related?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: No, I just didn't think he should start.



Q. How do you think Damir did?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: Not real well. You want to start for us tomorrow? I am down
to you. (Laughter)



Q. You got Oklahoma next. You had two widely different games against them.
What has to happen tomorrow that didn't happen last Saturday in Lubbock?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: We have to play better. I mean Oklahoma had to play better
against us in Lubbock than they did in Norman. We have to play better against
them tomorrow than we did in Lubbock. If we don't, Oklahoma wins. If we do,
maybe we wind up having a chance to take the game down to the end. There isn't
any great mystery. It isn't like we have to make more left-handed bounce
passes or shoot two handed set shots. We just have to play better.



Q. Do you like this team? Do you like your team?



COACH BOB KNIGHT: Sometimes. You know, usually. Sometimes I don't -- I've
never had a team I liked every minute I coached them. I don't care when it was
and I am sure that I have never had a player that liked me every minute I
coached him either. But when it's all said and done, and the season is all
over with, this will be a team that I really liked. It's a team that was
picked no higher than 7th anywhere in the preseason pickings by all of the
people that pick. I can look at how intelligent this group looks and none of
you were involved in that picking process before the season. I can just see
that -- I am a pretty good judge of intelect. I commend you guys for not any
of you having picked the 7th. But I said at the beginning of the year that we
had a chance to be a better team than we were last year. I don't think anybody
really gave that much credibility. I think at times and a pretty significant
number of times, we have been a better team than we were last year. So that's
something that really pleases me. These kids, it's the first time that Tech
has ever finished as high as fourth in the Big 12. It's the first time
obviously that we have earned a bye. There are some things that were really
good happened that during the course of the year. When it's all said and done
and I put the fly in the absolute right spot, and a fish comes up, I mis-
hooking the fly, I will be able to just lean back and say goddam, I will trade
that game against Iowa State for missing that fly. That's okay, I am not
worried about missing that fish right there. So this team will bring back some
really good memories to me as time passes.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Jared Homan](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16320)

### [Wayne Morgan](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14212)

### [Curtis Stinson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13913)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH WAYNE MORGAN: Opening statement. I thought my kids played as hard as
they could. I thought it was a very good game, very competitive game. Texas
Tech played very hard and they obviously made some key plays down the stretch
to put themselves in the position to win. I thought that going down the
stretch there were three or four times that we had good shots. Clean looks
just didn't go in. Going down the stretch we had two or three offensive
rebounds, went back up and they didn't go in. That's just a part of
basketball. Obviously going down the stretch we had a couple of critical
turnovers. Hopefully as a team we will learn from that and go on and get
better. But you have to give Texas Tech credit. We had them on the ropes. They
came back, they made the plays they had to make to pull the game out.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, coach.

_ 

Q. Now you kind of have the waiting period before selection Sunday. What is
this next 48 hours going to be like; a little uneasy, confident?



CURTIS STINSON: Regular day. Nothing changes, a regular day. We don't sit back
and cry and worry about selection Sunday. We're just going to see what
happens. We're not going to be stressed out worrying about anything. We will
see what happens.



Q. This is again for both players. Perspective from the floor about what
happened in that last ten minutes, you got six points; what is your take? What
was happening out there?



CURTIS STINSON: Well, we just didn't make the plays we should have made down
the stretch. Like coach said, Texas Tech played well. They made plays. It got
them back in the game. We made mistakes that hurt us.

JARED HOMAN: They were able to execute down the stretch. We weren't able to. I
thought they really stepped up their defense and physical presence and we just
couldn't counter that.



Q. You never got the outside shooting going today. Great outside shooting
yesterday. How big was it?



CURTIS STINSON: I don't think we took that many threes as a team. We didn't
take that many, so we never started jacking like we kind of was yesterday.
Yesterday we took about 10, so, we didn't settle for that today. We tried to
get it inside and work the big fellow and things were happening for us. We
just came up a little short.



Q. Jared started out, I think you had 12 of the team's first 18 points; did it
kind of wear on you over time or was it their defense more that kind of slowed
you down?



JARED HOMAN: No, I feel just myself messing up. I missed easy shots and I take
the responsibility for that. I didn't feel like I had a good game. They were
giving me the first half easy shots. I should have contributed a little bit
more in the second half. They were really packing it in, double-teams, and so
on. That was hard for our guards to drive and hard for me to post up.



Q. Was fatigue a factor? I know you guys have played obviously yesterday and
seems a lot of energy obviously has been expended, minutes all that; how did
that play a factor in the last few minutes?



JARED HOMAN: We played with energy yesterday. I thought we brought our energy
today. I don't think fatigue was a factor. I think we just didn't execute
properly. I think energy intensity and running the floor was there.

CURTIS STINSON: Same thing. I don't think nobody was tired. Down the stretch
you could see we made runs, fatigue factor, we wouldn't have made runs like
that. We just simply -- we just didn't execute down the stretch. That's what
hurt us a little bit.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Morgan now.

_ 

Q. Coach, Tech had 12 turnovers at halftime, only three turnovers in the
second half. Can you talk about how well that you thought that they handled,
countered your defensive pressure in the second half compared to the first?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I thought they handled the pressure well. I thought they
didn't turn the ball over. I think one of the key stats in the game was that
we turned the ball over 17 times and they weren't pressing us. I thought a key
statistic in the game was they had 17 points over -- or turnovers against us.
That should have been the opposite so you'd have to give them credit,
especially in the second half for handling pressure and again, you know, we
turned the ball over too many times ourselves.



Q. How proud are you of this team from being 8 and 8 to being where you guys
are right now and being talked about as being an NCAA team?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I am very, very proud of this team. And in the locker room
after the game that's what I told them that they should hold their heads up,
put their chests out; they should be proud of what they have accomplished.
They have nothing to be ashamed about today. They played and tried as hard as
they could. I think when you do that, that you can walk out with your head up.
Obviously we didn't want to turn the ball over when we did. Obviously we
didn't want to miss some easy shots when we did. Obviously we didn't want to
get offensive rebound and missed them and we did. Those are the things that
costs us the game. You still have to give credit to Texas Tech, they played
good defense and made some tough shots. I am proud of this team. I am proud of
what they have done. We have won 10 out of our last 13 games. Four of those
wins have been against teams in the top 25. It was a heck of a game today. You
saw the game, it was a heck of a game. Very competitive game. It was a very
entertaining game for the fans today also. Just obviously I wish the last
five, six minutes could have been different.



Q. If the NCAA selection committee only picked 5 teams from the Big 12 you
think you are more deserved than Texas to get that fifth bid?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I am not going to make those decisions. I am not
clairvoyant, I don't have a ball. I am not going to make those distinctions
because I am not on the committee. I am not in that room.



Q. Talk about your team.



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I just talked about it. We won 10 out of the last 13
games. Just beat 4 teams in the top 25. The only other two teams that have
done that have been Illinois and North Carolina.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Lance Harris](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16325)

### [Jeremiah Massey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15055)

### [Jim Wooldridge](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13703)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: I knew going into the game we would have to do a lot of
good things and at times we did. The rebounding was a problem. The free throw
line for us was a problem. We wanted to make it a perimeter game. I think we
got that accomplished, but like the three times we played them this year, you
have got to generate more offense and we just weren't able to do that
consistently. I thought we showed resilience again, we kept coming back, kept
coming back but when we really needed the big stopper, the big play we just
couldn't, couldn't quite get over the hump.

_

THE MODERATOR: Let's go to our student athletes first with questions.

_ 

Q. Jeremiah, do you remember game where you have gotten this frustrated and
how frustrated did you get throughout this contest?



JEREMIAH MASSEY: Personally I got too frustrated. I just let the ref get the
best of me. Something I shouldn't have done, part of the reason we lost. I
feel if I wouldn't have done that we would have had a whole lot better chance
of winning.



Q. For both players, the fact that Kansas had not been playing maybe their
best basketball and you guys have been playing pretty well, did you feel they
are vulnerable without Langford?



JEREMIAH MASSEY: We didn't feel they were vulnerable at all they are one of
best teams in the country. We knew that coming into the game. We knew they
were going to come out and fight this thing without Langford. We knew we had
to come out and play the best game of the year and we didn't do that.

LANCE HARRIS: We didn't look at it with Keith Langford not being in the
ballgame. We just looked at it as Kansas and they are ranked 7 in the country,
that we was going to come out and try to stop them.

_

THE MODERATOR: Let's entertain questions now for Coach Wooldridge.

_ 

Q. Talk a little bit about when it's 60 to 57 at that point right there, next
couple of minutes --



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: What was the time on that; 3 and a half, 4 and a half?



Q. Six minutes.



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, I thought pretty good at that point. I thought
with the score as tight as it was, we had put perhaps enough pressure on them
to think about some of those shots, but again, every time we would get to the
threshold, they'd make a play or we couldn't get the ball in the basket. We
would miss a free throw. It was a big play, a swing in that segment of the
game so we just couldn't tighten it up any more. But I did feel pretty good at
that point. I thought we were, you know, we had our shot right there.



Q. Do you feel like the inexperience of you guys starting three sophomores and
a freshman played a role?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, I think that a lot of things in that ball game or
leading up to that ballgame, rather, we would have to have done very well,
rebound the basketball, played great defense, not turn it over, shot
selection, get to the foul line as we did, a lot of things would have to go
our way. It takes, against a Kansas, some of the top teams in the country, it
takes some real toughness to do that. I think our team has played tough. I
really believe we have become a much tougher basketball team. But not enough
in these stats to beat Kansas tonight. So inexperience or experience, I don't
know. We just weren't good enough to beat them.



Q. Not enough scoring inside the arc, were you disappointed in the few number
of field goals that you got from two-point range. Could you talk about Lance's
both ball games, the way he kept you in it with his shooting?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Inside the arc was about the foul line. Every time it
seemed like we got inside the arc, we got to the foul line. So that -- that's
an indication to me that we were carrying out what we wanted to do going into
the game. We wanted to be proactive, wanted to get it to the rim, get it
inside the paint, so forth. I think the free throw attempts, you know, simple
that we got that accomplished. Lance has played awfully well on the offensive
end and improving every day defensively. He's playing with a lot of confidence
right now. He's shooting the ball well. He's confident, he wants it, and he's
another young player we have that's starting to really develop into a fine
player.



Q. Can you address the NIT scenario again, just your thoughts right now?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, I really hope that we have earned our right into
the tournament. I think we're right there and I hope that you will see us in
that tournament next week. I believe that we're optimistic about it but
obviously there's no -- there's nothing in stone right now. But I do think we
have played well enough and hopefully our team will be recognized for that,
Howard.



Q. Just to continue on that, the way your team is playing right now, do you
feel like this is the kind of team you would like to take into the post-
season?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: The kind of team we'd like to?



Q. Yeah?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Oh, yeah, I think so. I think we're still growing. I
think we're still, you know, we'd love to keep playing basketball this season
with this team.



Q. How important would it be to a young team to use this as a building block
into their junior year?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, I think in sophomore year, I think it would be
very important for a lot of reasons. One is confidence, you know, you build
from one season to the next. Reward for their effort and how they played and
how they came together. They are young and they are the staple to our future,
they are the core of the future. I think you know, a post-season tournament
would be an indication to them that they have been rewarded and that they
should be more confident as they go from 2005 to 2006.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Joey Graham](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14320)

### [Ivan McFarlin](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16281)

### [Eddie Sutton](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14500)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for our student athletes. Both of you guys, were you
worried about losing that ball game in the last five seconds.

_

JOEY GRAHAM: Of course we were. It was a tough game. It was a bomber at the
end they came out, hit some big shots. We didn't play the kind of defense that
we were known to play at the end. They came out hitting a lot of good shots on
us.

IVAN MCFARLIN: Colorado is a great team. They really fought back hard, hit
some big shots. Roby hit some big shots down the stretch. We was fortunate to
enough to get out with that win. When Hall let go of the ball to shoot it, my
heart was kind of pacing a little bit, but I was glad that he missed the shot.
But we shouldn't have been in that situation in the first place. We had a lead
by 12 at one point. Just let them get back in the game, so, it was a great
game, but overall some things we need to work on. Got to get ready for Kansas.



Q. You seemed to come out with a lot of energy in the first half. You had 15
rebounds in the game. Did you take try to take it upon yourself coming off the
loss of Texas try to get the guys going?



IVAN MCFARLIN: Last couple of games I haven't been rebounding well. Haven't
been scoring well. I just wanted to come out and give my team some fire, just
try to do everything I can to keep the ball alive. I got a technical in the
first half, but I was just trying to get my team hyped and just trying to get
motivation. I am just trying to do everything I can to win. We're trying to
defend our title. I am just trying to do everything I can to give 100% on
every play, just try to do the best I can.



Q. Talk about playing Kansas again?



JOEY GRAHAM: I think Kansas tomorrow is going to be another great game like we
did in Lawrence. We're going to be ready for them tomorrow and I am pretty
sure they are going to be ready for it.



Q. You get a win and yet it comes down to where you almost lost. Is this team
still pressing or not quite clicking? What did you see out of this victory?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: I think Colorado played well. Hit some big shots. We got a
little passive I think when we had the 9-, 10-point lead and they went down,
but the biggest thing was the defense. You score 81 points or whatever we had,
what did we score? 87. Got to win in double figures. This team is not very
good defensively. Unless they can get better. I thought we would be better
tonight because we spent three days really hard working on defense but our
guards couldn't contain penetration and our big guys didn't step off and help
like they need to and then we also allowed the ball to go inside too easily.
That whole thing was defense. We scored enough points. Colorado, you got to
give them credit, they hit some big shots.



Q. You talk about the last five seconds, missing the free throw then the
three-pointer?



COACH EDDIE SUTTON: We always debated about whether you have a three-point
lead less than 10 seconds to go and foul. I am not sure that's not the way to
go, especially when you play someone that's got a couple of players like
Osborn and Roby who really have great range. Then we fought over the missed
shot and walked with the ball. But I thought John really defended well there
when they threw it in. That's one thing we did well there at the end.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Johnnie Gilbert](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16323)

### [Kelvin Sampson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13715)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: I thought Missouri kids really competed hard. They have
got a difficult team to guard. But I was pleased with the way we won the game.
After getting up 17 in the first half, I thought foul trouble and keeping them
off the free throw line, those two things were big keys for us because we
could just never get any momentum. Seemed like when we were starting to roll
or get some stops, they just kept getting to that free throw line. That's
something our kids are going to have to adjust to. We have guarded a certain
way all year, but when you get to the tournament play at the end of the year
sometimes things change. But it's incumbent upon us to change. We can't sit
here and complain about it or point fingers, we have got to be able to adjust.
For about a month now we have been a really, really good defensive team. And
today it was they were calling it really, really tight. When you are an
aggressive team you have got to learn to back up a little bit. But offensively
we kept getting to the free throw line too. This time of year you don't
overanalyze; you just survive and advance. I am proud of our win today and
look forward to whoever we play tomorrow.



Q. When you fouled out of the game, you looked like you came over and said
something to Taj; what did you tell him when he came in the game?



JOHNNIE GILBERT: When I first walked over to Taj he told me -- he's like,
John, don't worry about it. I am going to win this one for you. I really value
that because I mean the players understand that this is my senior year and I
want to keep on going as far as I can and, you know, when my players want to
back me up like that I feel confident that we're going to win.



Q. You?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: He said don't foul. (Laughter)



Q. Johnnie, can you talk about the play of Terrell Everett down the stretch,
just his poise and leadership?



JOHNNIE GILBERT: I always like the way Terrell plays. I think he's one of our,
you know -- that's why we voted him outstanding player for our team. He
handles pressure well. He steps up when we need him and he's -- he's one of
those guys you can always count on. I am just glad to be playing on the side
of him right now. I am just happy that he made that (inaudible) and then came
back and got the free throw with it.



Q. Can you talk a little bit about what happened in the second half when early
on you had a 15-point lead then it became a game in the last five minutes?



JOHNNIE GILBERT: I mean, teams like Missouri and especially at this point, I
mean just teams that are still hungry to want to keep on winning and things
like that, I mean, you never are going to really just blow them out,
especially at this point. They are going to keep on clawing and scraping to
get back in, and I mean, we got to keep on clawing and scraping and get back
in it as well. It was a great team. They played well, they acted like they
really wanted to advance and I mean, at this point you got to expect things
like that, and at this stage it's going to happen. My team just got to be able
to bounce back from situations like that.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Sampson.

_ 

Q. They never had the lead-in possession. How was it that every time they got
the lead that you guys answered, I mean, post-season big shots, you guys hit
one after one after one to make sure you were in control down the stretch?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: I think that goes back to the way we have been playing.
Our kids, we bent, but, you know, part of bending was -- looked like we were
you know, in distant positions sometimes defensively and Missouri just kept
making plays. But every time they pushed us, we had the right call or we had
the right guy with the ball and that guy responded and made shots. I think
when Terrell went to the bench, I think it was around the 14-minute mark, I am
not sure -- somebody can correct me on that -- but we're up 13 when he went
out. Part of the reason they came kept coming back was number one, what they
were doing was good. Let's give Missouri some credit. They saw the way the
game was being called and they used it to their advantage. They just kept
driving the ball. Then Kleiza, he's just a hard match up. You know, he fouled
Johnnie out, Taj would have played any more probably would have fouled him out
too. He's a difficult match up because he can make 3s. He just drives it right
at you. But Lawrence McKenzie he's hit those shots all year. That's kind have
been our M.O. We know how to win a game. Our kids know how to win.



Q. Can you talk about putting Jaison Williams in for the inbound pass there at
the end?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: We called that X-2. And Missouri was taking away, taking
away our basket. Our kids just did a good job executing but Jaison, in special
situations he's always our inbounds guy whether it's on the baseline or
sideline and we had a game early in the year against Kansas State where we had
David Godbold take it in. If I had to do it over again I'd still probably have
David take it in because we worked with him on that play. But in that
situation, you know, Jason played like a singer. I told him after the game,
his playing time has gone down, it's a good thing he doesn't pout or make it
about himself because he went in there and made a great pass, Terrell made a
great cut; then Jaison comes back a makes two great free throws. That has kind
of been the M.O. of the kids in our program this year. I was real proud of
him.



Q. We have watched your games throughout the season, it always seems like
there's somebody else that steps up; one day it would be Bookout, oh, wait a
minute the reason they are winning is because of Taj Gray, the reason why it's
Everett or Godbold or whoever. How important is that once you get to the post-
season to be as balanced when you are not familiar with the teams or they are
not familiar with you?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: It's hard not to be familiar with teams in the power
conferences is because of television. Teams that play on TV a lot, those teams
are going to know a lot about you. Teams know about us because we're on TV so
much. We have had years, where Hollis had to have a great game, boy, or Aaron
McGee better score today or Ryan Minor, let's hope Ryan gets 30. This team is
not made up like that. I think over the years, you stay at one school for a
long period of time, you just learn. This is the kind of team I envision us
having a good team, you know, not a team that depends on one guy having to be
a superman every night; just a good team. We have about seven guys that are
capable of scoring in double figures. That is the way it is designed.



Q. The dump-off pass when Terrell went into the lane and --



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Nice shirt.



Q. I did this for you today. On Everett when he goes into the line, he dumps
off to Taj underneath, that seems to be maybe the key play of the game before
the very last play when you made the touchdown pass?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: Yeah, it's like Mike said though, we had a lot of big
plays. Sometimes the last one seems to be the biggest one. We had a lot of big
plays, but Terrell is just a -- he's a classic slasher, very slithery.
Lawrence is more of a catch-and-shoot guy. Jaison Williams is a catch-and-
shoot guy, but Terrell is just hard to keep in front of you. He's really
improved his shooting but we just called that open. We tried to get over the
top and get into the middle and attack, but Terrell is one of those kids that
can pass, he can shoot and he can score and understands there's a difference
between shooting and scoring. Jaison Williams can shoot with you. He's not a
good scorer. Terrell can shoot and score. Those guys are tough to defend. Plus
he's a baller. Terrell just balls. He's a baller.



Q. Talk about Gray picking up his third foul so early in the second half. You
gambling and you leaving him in there and not having to worry about him he
didn't pick up his fourth?



COACH KELVIN SAMPSON: I was worried about him. I am not going to lie and say I
wasn't worried about him. This is tournament time. Sometimes you have to take
a gamble occasionally. What made it frustrating too is, you know, the whistle
and how good Kleiza was at drawing fouls. You can say what it was, bottom line
was when he has his game going, you know, he's a tough cover for a post guy.
Post guys are pretty good at covering ten feet and in. He catches that ball at
the free-throw line and puts his head down and starts dribbling and spinning,
he puts you in a tough position. We kept going back and forth between man and
zone, but no matter what they did they kept getting to the free-throw line. So
credit Missouri.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Jason Conley](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15058)

### [Quin Snyder](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13901)

### [Kevin Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14255)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH QUIN SNYDER: Well, I just thought Oklahoma particularly at the beginning
of the game was really hot. And for us to come back from that early deficit, I
just -- that showed really how far this group of guys has come. Courageous
effort and obviously a difficult -- when it is a single-possession game and
you don't win the game because I thought we played well enough to win but
Oklahoma made some great plays to win the game. They made some great plays you
have got to give them credit.

_

THE MODERATOR: Let's go to questions for our student athletes.

_ 

Q. Jason, what went through your mind when Thomas let the ball go out of
bounds with about 30 seconds left?



JASON CONLEY: The game wasn't over yet. That's how I saw it. I know a lot of
people said that might have been the play but that wasn't the play to us. We
have seen Thomas handle the ball in that situation all year and he just lost
the ball but that wasn't it. That wasn't it. So I think we have learned a lot
from this experience and in the post-season we can change things.



Q. You guys won't know whether or not you are going to play in the NIT for a
couple of days. Are you going to start mentally preparing now or take a little
break?



JASON CONLEY: We're going to get ready now, I guess. We have a feeling we will
be playing. We will just do whatever it takes. We have no idea who we're going
to play yet, but it's not over. It's just like coach said, there's two teams
in the country that can finish with a win and we could be one of them.

KEVIN YOUNG: We're going to keep practicing and getting better, that's all we
have got to do, getting better.



Q. Kevin, can you talk about what coach mentioned on how far this team has
come and what it showed today to show how far you are and what a different
team you are since November?



KEVIN YOUNG: Yeah, in November we weren't a good team and you can look at the
last couple of games, you know, we beat KU at home then we played Nebraska
which was a tough team, it's tough to beat three teams in a row. Today we are
down by 16 points just to stay together and be relentless and come back, keep
fighting and we were fighting and having fun. That was the best part about it.
I looked at all my teammates and everybody was like we're really intense and
we were just relentless. We just wanted to keep fighting and have a chance to
win. We had a chance.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions now for Coach Snyder.

_ 

Q. Quin, the end of the game was their own fire that your team was playing on
your fire, and what if anything did the technicals that were called have to do
with lighting that?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: Well, I think any time, it's like Kevin said, I think these
guys over the course of the season, you know, found an identity and that's
their identity, particularly you know, defensively and being tough, you know,
just gotten a lot tougher and being physical. When we play that way, I think
we're just a whole lot more relaxed offensively. We have really learned how to
share the ball. That's something that obviously I believe in. It's the only
way to play. Our guys I think are seeing the game more through our staff's
eyes. This has been a season for us about teaching a bunch of young guys how
to have higher standards and you don't know those things until you experience
them. I think even today, unfortunate as it is, it is useful in that regard.
We really executed -- we didn't execute on that, that one play when we turned
the ball over, but prior to that, I mean, four, five trips in a row down the
court, we were executing. Jimmy got to the hoop. Linas got knocking down
shots, running plays and getting good looks. At the other end they were making
free throws. I was pleased with our execution.



Q. Your response at all to the two technicals?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: I don't think it's appropriate for me to respond about
officiating. I don't think it was the T's as much as it was our kids kind of
remembering what the game plan was. I thought when we started the game, we
were a little wide-eyed. We weren't as focused on doing our job. Early on we
had the wrong guy taken out of bounds one time. It's possible that, you know,
that woke us up too.



Q. Your thoughts on the way Kleiza played for the second game in a row really
kind of carrying you guys.



COACH QUIN SNYDER: He's a fun kid to coach right now because he's really
listening. He had to open up -- he's playing with so much more poise that
there's a lot of things you can get through to him. Tonight, for instance,
people have been playing him for the drive. And he started the game just
flooring the ball and trying to drive it. He's going to go through you. And
there was one point I said, kind of slow down, Linas, and read, you got your
jump shot, knock it down. There's been times this year when you have told him
that it's kind of (whistling) because he has just been fighting everything.
And he's really matured emotionally and I think that has been the most
important thing for him that's allowed him to make a lot of plays. He seems
he's not putting as much pressure on himself to score. It's kind of coming in
the flow of the offense. Those are the things that I noticed most about him.
The other thing he's doing, he's guarding. There were times during the year
where I sat him down because no one gets the right not to defend and I think
he's just more engaged in every aspect of the game. He's playing more with his
head.



Q. Tell me about the baseball pass at the end of the game. Kevin Young's
defense the last two days has been outstanding but there was obviously a
letdown there; what happened on that baseball pass?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: The baseball pass?



Q. The deep touch down there at the end with the foul that --



COACH QUIN SNYDER: It wasn't his guy. You are trying to deny the ball and
obviously you don't want to get beat Longar and Jason Conley was up pressuring
and, you know, Kevin was just a half step late trying to give him help. He
reacted. They made a great play. That was one of the many plays that Everett
made. I mean, if there's anybody playing better in our league than him right
now, I don't know who it is. He was really good tonight.



Q. Talk about the prospect of playing in the NIT.



COACH QUIN SNYDER: We want to. I think this team has gotten a lot better.
That's true of a lot of teams during the course of the season. I think that
the thing in my mind that differentiates this is some of the things that have
changed internally inside our players, which I think are manifesting
themselves in some of the stuff we're talking about, sharing the ball and
really growing up as people as well as a team. I think every chance we get to
go out and play again and hopefully try to reinforce that, it's an important
thing, not just for this year's group, but for our guys down the road.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Julius Ashby](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16326)

### [Marcus Hall](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15566)

### [Ricardo Patton](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13705)

### [Richard Roby](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13912)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH RICARDO PATTON: I thought it was a heck of a ballgame. I thought our
kids came out and really stepped up to the challenge of playing one of the top
teams in the country. Unfortunately we fell short. But we gave ourselves a
chance. I am very proud of these young men. I told them the only disappointing
thing about tonight's loss is the fact that it took us this long in the season
to realize how hard we had to play to win ball games but I am very proud of
the young men and in the two nights that they played here.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for our three student athletes.

_ 

Q. Marcus, talk a little bit about that last shot?



MARCUS HALL: The whole game we have been running the same out-of-bounds play.
It was pretty much open. I came up with the intention of getting a good three
and he kind of knocked it out of my hand a little bit. When I picked it up I
turned around, tried to shoot it, unfortunately I missed.



Q. When you get this close, how frustrating is it to look at that free throw
line and see how many points you left out there tonight?



RICHARD ROBY: Very frustrating. We struggled from the line all year. I think
yesterday we shot pretty well from the free throw line and we won the game.
When it comes down to the clutch part of the time you have got to knock down
free throws. Free throws win ball games.



Q. Talk about the way Julius played in these past two games?



MARCUS HALL: Yesterday after the game I told him that I thought yesterday's
game was the best game that he played this year. Today he just played like a
man. He had three dunks within a span of two or three minutes. We all knew
that Julius had it in him. He came out with it today. I thought today he
played phenomenal.

RICHARD ROBY: Julius is big for us. This is the type of basketball he was
playing before he got injured. We were looking forward to getting him back to
the status he was. It happened to happen a little late in the season but we're
probably going to take this game and hopefully next year Julius can bring it
like this every night.



Q. Julius could you address your play?



JULIUS ASHBY: I think came down to the end of season even though like I still
have some nagging injuries I tried to give it my all. That's all I can say.

_

THE MODERATOR: We will take questions for coach Patton now.

_ 

Q. Was it just guys realizing how hard they had to play at this level or what
really happened? You had a really good tournament even though you lose
tonight.



COACH RICARDO PATTON: There were a few things that happened throughout the
season that really affects a team and particularly a young team and
inexperienced team. For example, Andy Osborn missed 28 days of the season with
injuries. Julius Ashby missed a month of the season. We suspended four guys
for a game. There were a number of things that hurt I think the development of
this team. Julius Ashby started out the season in the preseason playing the
way he played in this tournament and unfortunately when he got the injury it
just affected him longer than any of us thought it would. He wasn't the same
guy. So we really didn't have an inside presence. This tournament, if you have
got guys that can make shots from the perimeter and you have got inside
presence then that makes all the difference in the world. But when people only
have to guard your perimeters it's just kind of tough. They pound the ball
inside because we didn't have his defensive presence as much as his offensive
presence made a difference. So certainly those things don't count as excuses
for coaches sometimes but those things are real. They affect particularly
young and inexperienced teams. Maturity happens at different stages for
different people and there's no difference in how it happens for teams. I
think sometimes it takes a team a little bit longer to mature.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Andy Osborn](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14311)

### [Ricardo Patton](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13705)

### [Richard Roby](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13912)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, congratulations. Your thoughts for opening comment.

_

COACH RICARDO PATTON: It was a really good basketball game and our kids played
well, and as I told them after the game, you didn't have anything to do with
it, with the win. I think we won a game because our heads and hearts were in
the right place. I thought we were unselfish. We bought into the fact that we
needed to play defense and defense gave us a chance. We talked about before
the game playing for 40 minutes and we have shown the ability to play for 30
minutes and 35 some games, but we need to play for 40 minutes. I thought the
team did that.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions first for our student athletes.

_ 

Q. You come in losing five in a row. And no 11th-seed had ever won a first
round game here before. Talk about how you just made some history tonight?



RICHARD ROBY: We felt we were better than what our record indicated. We showed
strides throughout the season we can play well. Tonight we just brought it. We
knew we had to bring it. We didn't want our season to end today.

ANDY OSBORN: Same thing. We knew coming into this game that we had shown that
when we play good games against Texas at our place we can beat anyone. We were
happy to come out to play the way we did.



Q. Rich, you seemed to get off to a slow start. You didn't get your first
field goal until about six and a half minutes left. Did you feel tight
starting out?



RICHARD ROBY: Yeah, I missed a couple of shots, but I felt if I played defense
and rebounded the ball, the points would come. I just started worrying about
other things on the court and not so much on scoring and just going to the
glass and doing other things for my teammates.



Q. What clicked in the second half for you?



ANDY OSBORN: We got on a run, hit some shots, really got motivated. Got on the
open court. Pretty dangerous out there. Marcus really ran the floor really
well with the ball and pushed it up the floor. We just really got easy
buckets. Then we started to hit some threes. That kind of opened things up for
us.



Q. Talk about the defense you guys played on Brad Buckman. I know he hit
20-something points and 20-something rebounds in Boulder, 57 points today.



ANDY OSBORN: Foul trouble was pretty good defense. Four fouls pretty early in
the second half really helped us out, not having that big body. The last game
he played against us he played really well. Coming into this game we didn't
really want to let him do that again. Our whole front line didn't want to let
him go off again.



Q. How big were some of the bench players, particularly Martane Freeman
tonight and a lot of guys came up, Ashby came up with more points than he's
had how crucial was that to the victory?



ANDY OSBORN: When we have all the guys clicking on all cylinders, Martane,
energy coming off the bench, he did a lot of good things tonight, offensive
rebounds, second shots, especially for himself as well. (Inaudible). Picked up
on the free throw line, really big hitting free throws especially down the
stretch.



Q. You guys don't have much time to turn around, get ready for Oklahoma State,
get some rest tonight. What are your plans, coach?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: We will get back and the guys need to get a bite to eat
and certainly they will be probably wound up tonight and won't be able to
sleep. I told them they should at least go to their room, get in the bed and
lay down. Even if they can't sleep, it is still a form of rest. Tomorrow we
will get up, watch some film after breakfast, just Friday to prepare. I think
one thing that we realize is that they played a very physical game against us
at our place. I still have visions of them throwing our guys to the floor and
so that's what we have to prepare ourselves for is very physical contest.



Q. Talk about Oklahoma State a little bit.



ANDY OSBORN: Yeah, look forward to playing them. They got Joey Graham
obviously is the best player. We got to look to stop him at this point. Hoping
that we can battle them on the boards, be physical because we know it's going
to be a battle. This is the Top-10 team in the nation. We have got to bring
our A-Game against these guys. What I said was we know this game is going to
be pretty physical. Top-10 team any time is going to be a physical battle.
We're going to have to rebound, battle with Joey Graham inside. It's going to
be one of those games where there's going to be some bruises and elbows
flying. That's kind of what we have got to look forward to.



Q. Rich, the last time you guys played Oklahoma State you played probably one
of your best halves of the season. You were still trailing at half-time. Can
you just talk a little bit about --



RICHARD ROBY: When you are making shots you can pretty much play with anybody.
First half we made a lot of shots. They also made a lot of shoots too. I think
52 to 50 they were winning. That just shows defense wins ball games. If you
can stop guys, you give yourself a chance to win.

_

THE MODERATOR: We will take questions for Coach Patton.

_ 

Q. You used a lot of lineups early, a lot of players, I think 12 players
played in the first half. Was that to get to them with fresh legs and get them
a little worn out?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: We had guys in foul trouble first half. We had guys with
two fouls, both Andy Osborn and Chris Copeland had a couple of fouls in the
first half, so we just ended up having to go to our bench a little bit more
and certainly I've gained a lot of confidence in playing Marcus King-Stockton
, he's come along nicely. Martane Freeman is a guy that I thought would play
well back in his hometown with all of his family here. He's had a few good
days of practice. So it was good to see him get an opportunity to play first
of all, and then to take advantage of it.



Q. Paul Graham brings a lot to your staff obviously, but in this particular
game tomorrow against Oklahoma State, what does he bring as far as scouting on
Oklahoma State?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: You know, certainly he's not as familiar with the
majority of the personnel because he's been removed for quite some time now. I
guess 5, maybe six years he's been removed from there. But just in terms of
some of the things that they run offensively, but doesn't make a difference if
you can't guard Joe Graham or John Lucas, doesn't make much difference knowing
what they are going to do if you can't stop them.



Q. Talk about the defensive effort on Buckman, what changed from the game in
Boulder and why you did so well?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: We won in Boulder ---



Q. Well he scored 27 --



COACH RICARDO PATTON: I really didn't hear your question.



Q. Talk about the defensive efforts you guys put forth against Brad Buckman?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: We wanted to make sure that we doubled him as much as we
possibly could and get the ball out of his hands. We wanted to make sure that
the point guard Gibson, when he gave it up we would try to deny the ball back
to him a little bit. Because I just thought that those two guys were the keys
to them winning. When we went in at half-time down one I actually thought we
had played one of the best halves we played all year, yet still down, so I
didn't have many complaints. We were 6 for 6 from the free throw line at half
time. I think they were 12 for 15, so we just needed to pick it up, second
half, and our guys that were in foul trouble if they could come out and play
well make a few shots for us I thought we still had a good chance.



Q. Julius tonight had 147 points. 8 rebounds. He looked more like the player
you saw at the beginning of the season. Do you have any idea what might have
been different for him tonight?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: No, I really don't. He's just -- maybe you know, it took
him this long to get over the injury that he had. Again, the way he played
tonight was how he started out the season. He had 11 or 12 points against Cal
and 17 rebounds. And tonight we saw flashes of that ability. That's something
we haven't seen in quite sometime now and it was quite frankly good to see. I
hope he can continue.



Q. Is that a positive or negative that you win tonight you go into tomorrow
with momentum or that OSU gets to rest?



COACH RICARDO PATTON: I don't know. I think certainly game jitters ought to be
behind us at this point but we're facing an entirely different opponent and
you know, I just think that sometimes with young guys they don't know how to
mentally get themselves ready for the next game. This is the first time you
know, some of our guys have played in the Big 12 tournament so it will be
interesting to see how they handle their mental preparation for tomorrow.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Jeremiah Massey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15055)

### [Fred Peete](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15056)

### [Jim Wooldridge](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13703)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, your thoughts on today's victory.

_

COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, it was a kind of a game of two games in one game.
We got 27 on the board in first half and 41 in the second half. I am really
proud of the way our guys played. I thought we played well. We kind of hung in
there. We had some big games by a lot of different players and it was a team
effort. It's what we talked about going into that game that we have to play
well as a team on both ends. I thought we were able to accomplish that.

_

THE MODERATOR: We're joined now by Fred Peete and Jeremiah Massey from Kansas
State. Let's go to questions for our two student athletes first.

_ 

Q. Talk about when it got tight down the stretch how you guys responded,
especially after they are up 46-41 you guys really hung in. Talk about playing
as a team?



JEREMIAH MASSEY: We basically took it as a personal challenge. Those guys beat
up on us at their place. We knew we had to play extremely hard. We had to suck
it up at the end, everybody was tired but we had to pull it up.

FRED PEETE: Tight games through the whole season; we have had close games. We
knew if we took it in long enough, rebound the ball, play good defense, we
knew we were going to come out victorious.



Q. Talk about the work on Wright and the first half as opposed to the second
half, what you did differently in the second half?



FRED PEETE: Basically I made him get the ball and get his touches and get his
shot off. Coming in we knew that he was going to score the ball, first half he
ended up with 21, so second half me and the team took it as a personal
challenge not to let him get into our defense, stopping him from scoring the
ball basically.



Q. About the eight-minute mark you got three or four buckets really quick
there. At that point was the team running more, playing to get you the ball or
did you feel a sense that you wanted to get in to make a difference at that
point in the ballgame?



JEREMIAH MASSEY: I felt me being a senior, it possibly being my last game, I
tried to do something to make my team win. I demanded the ball. I am just
happy that it was able to go into the basket.



Q. How frustrated were you the first half picking up the fouls, seeing Antoine
go off; you weren't able to respond?



JEREMIAH MASSEY: I can't say I was frustrated. I committed some dumb fouls
over the back and can't really remember the other one, but I mean, those fouls
they were fouls so I wasn't upset with the rest or anything like that it was
my fault. I knew I had to come out second half do something different. I tried
to be aggressive the same way in the first half and I was successful in the
second half.



Q. When you all played A&M you were the only player for your team to score in
double figures. Tonight there was five of you. Talk about the difference as
far as that goes.



JEREMIAH MASSEY: We just ran our offense better. Over at A&M we let them speed
us up, take us out of our game. We had to run our offense the way we do in
practice. Coach said we had to do the same thing we do in practice. Second
half we were able to do that.



Q. You mentioned A&M kind of bouncing back last time you played them. You get
a chance to play Kansas now. You played them tough last time; what do you
expect tomorrow?



FRED PEETE: Basically we expect the same game. It's going to be a hard-nosed
fight coming out, rebounding, we know they got great players; we have got
great players too. It's going to come out -- going to be a tough hard game,
going to be a close game. We're going to come out and give it all we got.

JEREMIAH MASSEY: They are not going to be easy. We're going to come out and
play our hearts out. Hopefully we can come up with a victory.



Q. Jeremiah, you said yesterday somebody asked you whether you were looking
forward to playing in the NIT or not. You said you wanted to play in the NCAA
tournament and win this thing. Now that you won this do you think the momentum
will help you possibly achieve that goal?



JEREMIAH MASSEY: Momentum is a great thing. We had momentum coming into the
tournament. We pretty much got the same momentum, pretty much going to come
out play Kansas State basketball. Maybe they will give us a chance toward the
end and win .



Q. Can you talk about the difference, the way you all played Antoine
defensively in the second half?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, Antoine Wright has been maybe the hottest player
in this league over the last couple of weeks. He got loose from us both in our
man defense and zone defense. Second half I thought Fred guarded him for the
most part. I thought he did a great job on him, crowded him. Our defense was
built on teamwork but I thought Fred's effort to get to him and compete
against him was pretty terrific tonight. You can't stop him. He's too good a
player but I thought the second half we really competed hard against them.



Q. Second half you seemed to come out in attack mode as far as offense.



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: Well, that's all we talked about going into the
ballgame. You have four days to get ready. That's all we talked about is
getting inside their defense, getting into the free throw line, being
aggressive, driving the ball, playing off the post, some transitions, some
offensive rebounds. All those things are proactive, probing, if you would,
elements to offense. We get to half-time, we haven't accomplished that. And if
you look at the second half field goal percentage, it appears that we did. We
shot right at the 60 percent. We got the ball inside in a variety of ways, and
that was the difference in the ballgame. We weren't able to get it inside that
stingy defense they play.



Q. The charge when Lance was called for charging, the crowd really picked up
on that. Seems like you guys picked up on it too. Did that change the
emotions?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: I am glad you brought that up because I think there were
a couple moments, that being one, that I think the crowd really helped us and
it was, if you would, a home court crowd for us tonight. That energized our
players and we showed some poise and some toughness and played much better
basketball through the second half. But that certainly impacted that game.



Q. Also looked like you got some energy with Jeremiah Massey, went on that run
at the eight-minute mark. Does he have a sense for a critical point in the
game where he wants to demand the ball and put in some buckets and change the
momentum?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: I think he does. I think obviously if you have seen us
play, he's a big, big part of what we do offensively and he's a different kind
of post player. He's not your traditional back-to-the-basket post player. He
has got a different kind of game and he's very quick. He's very agile, and I
think his game, as games wear on, his agility and quickness become a more
important factor in that game. I think that's when he really finds more
offense, is in the second half because, you know, people get fatigued and he's
still is able to use his quickness and agility in a pretty high level. He's
our go-to guy so that's where we go with him.



Q. How hardened or tougher are you guys now going into the games like Oklahoma
at home and at Colorado to come down the stretch when it gets tough, is this
team -- they're receptive to that and kind of know what to do maybe a little
bit more?



COACH JIM WOOLDRIDGE: I think so. I think we have been in a lot of close games
and you don't win all those close games but I think you learn as you go, and
we went to the foul line, missed some again but our defense was good enough
and rebounding was good enough that it carried us through the game with a big
win. So yeah, I think these kids, you know, they have played some pretty good
basketball down the stretch and they won four out of five. They won on the
road. They won at home. They have won on the neutral site. They are learning,
growing and getting better.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thank you, coach. Congratulations on the victory tonight.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Billy Gillispie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13712)

### [Joseph Jones](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13903)

### [Antoine Wright](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15057)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: First of all, I apologize for us getting here so late.
We weren't sure that we were supposed to -- I am sorry. I didn't mean to make
anybody wait. I promise I didn't mean to inconvenience you. I was talking to
our team after a very difficult loss and one that signifies the end of Big 12
play. I apologize for making anybody wait. It's my fault 100%. The game, I
thought it was a really good game as far as effort and those kind of things.
Kansas State definitely deserved to win. They executed well in the second
half, beat us on the boards. We couldn't make any shots. We didn't really have
the kind of pace that we needed to on offense and, you know, basically from
the word go, but I give them all the credit they really defended well,
rebounded well, ran their offense well when they needed to the most.



Q. Antoine second half they seemed like they did a better job in denying you
the ball both inside and outside. Talk about that?



ANTOINE WRIGHT: It was obvious that they were going to come out and try to do
a better job on me because I got off to a good start. They did a great job
just trying to make me uncomfortable in the second half and it worked.



Q. Antoine, talk about the different situations obviously that you have been
in the last two years; you have got more games ahead of you hopefully.



ANTOINE WRIGHT: That's what we have been doing all year, bouncing back from
tough situations and we're a strong team and together-team. We know we're
going to be able to bounce back from this.



Q. Joe, discuss Massey and how difficult he is to guard.



JOSEPH JONES: Massey, he's just real crafty on the inside. He gives you a lot
of pump fakes and stuff and just works hard in the inside just to do what he
has to do to score points and help his team win.



Q. Antoine, could you talk about how you were not able to get your offensive
pace going against their defense?



ANTOINE WRIGHT: I mean you just got to credit the ball pressure that they had.
They did a good job of pressuring the ball and forcing us. We just didn't cut
hard enough to get our plays off, and they did a good job of pressuring us and
they had a good job with the crowd, and you know, just flustered us a little
bit.

_

THE MODERATOR: We will have questions for the coach now.

_ 

Q. Would you discuss maybe the last three minutes of the first half and that
momentum that they got seemed to carry over?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: I would -- definitely so 29-23 and we got -- we were
shooting on the front, one and one and have a chance to go up 31-23, Chris has
made all his free throws all year long. We missed that one, get a stop, go
down the other end, get a dunk. Miss the dunk next time down, we're two feet
away from the basket and throw it out of bounds when we have another break
opportunity and that was definitely a tough deal for us because they ended up
scoring. I didn't think we played particularly well in the first half because
they done a really good job. We didn't worry too much. But I think it was more
of a positive for them than a negative for us. I think it really gave them
some momentum going into the second half. They kept executing. Give those guys
the credit, they have been playing great and they have been rebounding great,
especially the last five games, and they continued that tonight. I thought
they would play like that. I thought we would make a few more shots. I thought
we would play a little better. Those things happen. So congratulations to
them.



Q. The way you guys have been finishing did you feel good though despite kind
of the momentum they had at the half being up 4?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: I didn't think they had any momentum at the half. I
thought we hurt ourselves a little bit to make our lead bigger, but we were
never worried about anything. We just never could get any stops in the second
half. Not too many teams shot a percentage like that against us in the second
half and they just got the ball when they needed to. Give those guys credit,
they are a good team and played probably one of their better games tonight. It
wasn't we got our heads down or anything like that. They just continued to do
a really good job on the defensive end. We missed a lot of open shots that we
have been making. We didn't make them tonight. That's the way basketball goes.



Q. Could you talk about your post-season expectations for this team now?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: I would think we're still going to be playing. So I
think that we'll be a fun team to play as far as I think it will be fun to
watch us play. We never really talk about any of that kind of stuff. I would
assume that we're still going to be playing. We deserve to be playing and, you
know, we came here to try to play more than one day but we didn't get it done
and next time we come back maybe we will have to do better, but I would assume
that we will continue to get a chance to practice and play and I really look
forward to it. I know our guys do too.



Q. Could you sense how much of a factor maybe the crowd was for them in the
second half? A couple of key incidents, the charge, whatever, they seemed to
get into the game. Could you sense that?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: A little bit but I really -- I thought we played a
little bit tentatively all day. I thought that we were -- I haven't seen us --
we weren't scared or anything like that, but I saw some guys play a different
game than they might have played. I thought they weren't quite aggressive as
they had been. I think that's natural for that to happen. These guys have
exceeded expectations in every sense of the word and they played really well
on the big stage and this is the biggest stage. I thought that we had great
intention. I just thought that we were just a little bit tighter, or just a
little bit different than we had been. Maybe not quite as aggressive. Trying
to -- probably trying to play into the -- to make mistakes and I think that
happens, the bigger the game. But I think it's a great learning experience for
our guys, and I think that we'll prosper from that in the future.



Q. Could you talk about Massey from about the 6 minute mark on, just how hard
he was to stop?



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: We couldn't stop him. We made a couple of errors and
knowing you know, where he was exactly on the floor how to defend in that
area. It wasn't because we weren't trying though. We were trying. Chris did a
great job as far as fighting him all day long. He's just a hard guy to stop
but he made his biggest plays when the game was right on the line. We couldn't
do enough to help Chris in that situation and you can't really guard him with
one guy and you really have to put yourself in a position to help. During that
stretch, I thought we had done it great for the entire most of the game but in
that little stretch there, we didn't -- Chris was a little bit off in where he
needed to be positioned then we didn't really help him quite as much. But give
the credit to Massey, he's a really good player. Knows how to get to the foul
line; knows how to finish passes.



Q. Do you think the fact that A&M hasn't won a tournament game why they were a
little tentative back of ---



COACH BILLY GILLISPIE: This team hadn't lost any games until today and so I
would think that had nothing to do with it. I think that you know, Duke
probably playing in their conference today or tomorrow, they always win, but I
don't think that's going to help them win tomorrow or whenever they play. I
think they will win because they play a better game than the opponent does on
that particular day. So history means nothing to us. If you follow our team at
all, if we were concerned about what we hadn't done, we would have won two or
three games this year, so I don't think that that had anything to do with it
at all. This is the first time we have ever lost. I apologize again for being
late. I was spending some time with my team and it's a tough time, but no
excuse, I really do apologize for being late in here. I wasn't aware we were
supposed to be in here at a particular time. I really -- I really appreciate
the job you guys do, you know that. We try to be as available as possible. I
really am sorry that I got here late.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Thomas Gardner](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14252)

### [Jimmy McKinney](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13706)

### [Quin Snyder](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13901)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH QUIN SNYDER: I thought we really just played great defense in the first
half and were able to build the lead, particularly again coming out the second
half our execution, the beginning, was just terrific. We were sharing the
ball. Sometimes when you got a lead like that early you know there's going to
be a run. We were not able to extend that lead. I thought we let up a little
bit with our defense, but they just made an adjustment, spread the floor and
started driving us. I think a lot of credit goes to Nebraska. Our team has
proven that we can be pretty sound defensively and I didn't think -- it wasn't
so much of anything, we just stopped playing, Nebraska started making plays.
And they were really getting to the foul line and that made the game longer.
Which was obviously to their benefit. I think it was a heck of a win for our
team, and really in a nutshell a little bit of kind of what these guys have
been through and their ability to persevere throughout a game.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you. Let's go to questions for the student
athletes. Can you go through the pass to Kleiza that was picked off, I mean,
what you were thinking; was this a called play, was this exactly what you were
going to do or what?

_

JIMMY MCKINNEY: There was a play, an elbow to Linas, I picked up my dribble
which I shouldn't done and I telegraphed the pass, he picked it off. I was
frustrated at the moment but I had to get over and go back on defense and make
sure they don't score.



Q. Thomas, maybe you can talk about the first half and how you guys got out to
a big lead; what was working for you guys?



THOMAS GARDNER: Just execution. We was playing together as a team, sharing the
ball and we was able to jump on them early. I think when we got off to a good
start it's really helpful for our team.



Q. Jimmy, can you talk about the play of Linas, because he had a big game for
you guys?



JIMMY MCKINNEY: Yeah, we thought that Linas was getting to the line. He was
doing things that really helped our team and for a moment they was denying
him, making it hard for him getting the ball but we stayed patient, giving him
the ball to make him successful. He was given the ball, he was making his free
throws, drawing fouls. That was the most important thing for our game plan
today.



Q. Can both of you players talk about playing Oklahoma now?



THOMAS GARDNER: It's going to be a tough game. We were fortunate to beat them
earlier in the season at home but there's a reason why they are number one in
their league right now. They will be ready to come out and fight. We have got
to prepare for them and go out and execute our game plan.

JIMMY MCKINNEY: I think we just got to be able to, like Thomas said, execute
our game plan. We have got to make sure that we start on defense, if we start
defense, make it tough for them, I think we will be all right. Most important
we got to rebound the ball, I think that's what made us come out with a
victory today. We rebounded the ball well in crucial situations, so we know
they are going to crash the boards and go hard to the boards so we have got to
make sure we rebound and make it tough for them on the defensive end.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thank you guys for coming. Congratulations.

_ 

Q. Quinn, I think Jimmy said it best, " He telegraphed that pass to Kleiza."
Was he so focused in on that's what he did, because the whole arena knew where
that pass was going?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: Yeah, the whole arena, we were trying to get the ball to
Linas. That's where the ball needed to go. I think we did -- I thought we did
a really good job of doing that for most of the night. If Jimmy wouldn't have
picked up his dribble, the back end of the play would have just been an on-
ball screen; where Linas would have just screened his man and he could have
turned the corner. Like you said, he picked his dribble up and Linas was still
trying to post the guy. It was one play, you know, that was one play, and
obviously it was a really big play. I think what I take from it about our guys
is that we were able to turn around and get stops. I think at a point during
the year there would have been enough frustration that it would have derailed
us defensively and might have given something up right away. We were able to
get back in transition and defend. So in spite of the lack of execution on
that given play, I was pleased with how we responded to the mistake.



Q. Following up Kleiza, it looked like Nebraska throughout the first half was
saying there's no way they are going to let Kleiza beat them again. What
changed that, your ability to let him beat them again?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: I don't think they -- I think they were still trying to not
let him get touches. We have run a lot of set plays for him at various times
during the year. Lately we have been trying to open the floor more because
people will help off other players so much and our spacing is really crucial
to getting him the ball. I think the biggest thing that happened. I actually
told Linas after the game that he didn't show any frustration. In fact, at the
end of the first half he passed up like a 16-footer to dropped the ball down
to Kevin for a layup. Those are the kind of things that I think our team is
doing right now that I really like. And that I think have made us a better
club. When you play that well unselfishly, eventually Linas does get touches.
He was getting other guys involved and eventually his game came around and he
had opportunities. But I think it was precisely because he was patient and our
guys did a really good job of continuing to try to work to get it to him.



Q. You talked a lot about rebounding coming into this game. You out-rebounded
them in the offensive rebounds. Talk about beating them on the boards.



COACH QUIN SNYDER: The guy that, early, was all over the offensive glass was
Kevin and then I thought Jason Conley was terrific with some big offensive
rebounds late. When you are having a hard time scoring which we have had at
times this year, rebounding becomes even more important. I thought our
defensive rebounding was kind of the last thing with our defense that we
needed to shore up. There have been sometimes we have guarded well and haven't
finished possessions, and we knew how much Nebraska relied on the offensive
glass for offense. And it was a really important part of our game plan even if
we had to face guard them to keep those guys out of there. They still got a
few, but I think they really had to work for them.



Q. Earlier in his career, Linas, would he have pouted in the situation like he
did in the first half?



COACH QUIN SNYDER: Linas? Pout?



Q. Yes.



COACH QUIN SNYDER: He has been great. I mean, I think the fact that I am
teasing him about it with you guys is indicative of some of the maturity that
he's developed. I don't think Linas ever really pouted as much as he just got
mad, he's just an emotional guy. That also what makes him a heck of a player.
He's just learned how to use that, you know, to help him and not let it hurt
him. That you know, I told him a few weeks ago I wanted him to lead us in
assists in rebounds. He hasn't quite led us in assists, but you know, I think
he's thinking more along that line and he's just a much more efficient player
when he's patient like that and playing with a lot of poise.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you. Congratulations.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Barry Collier](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13707)

### [Jason Dourisseau](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13914)

### [Joe McCray](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16321)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH BARRY COLLIER: I thought our team battled hard after getting off it to a
slow start but really never gave up and I think that Mississippi did a really
nice job defensing us. Kleiza is tough inside and scored the ball for them but
they had excellent poise in the first half and we had probably the better of
the two teams in the second half but not enough to come back.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions. Thank you, coach.

_ 

Q. Barry, can you talk about the decision not to start Jake?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: They want these guys first.



Q. Apologize.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student athletes at this point.

_ 

Q. Joe, can you talk about that last shot? Did it look good?



JOE MCCRAY: I thought it was good. I shot it and it rimmed out, kind of hurt.



Q. Can you talk about what Missouri was doing defensively in the first half,
how you guys finally got it going?



JASON DOURISSEAU: Half court defense was strong. They was in the position, I
mean it was set so you couldn't really drive like you wanted to. And they had
hands up on shooters but in the second half we was able to get it going in
transition and we got some easy buckets and we was able to call our way back.

JOE MCCRAY: I think they was just playing pressure defense, playing tight,
just putting a lot of pressure on the ball, but we wasn't being strong with
the ball from the beginning, so that caused us to have turnovers and they had
the points for them.

_

THE MODERATOR: Anything else? We will excuse you, guys. Let's go to questions
now for Coach Collier.

_ 

Q. The decision not to start Jake and how you told him and how that went, and
then talk a little bit about the spark he gave you in the second half.



COACH BARRY COLLIER: Well, we just thought that maybe coming off the bench
would both help Jake, relax him a little bit and help him play better. He's
really struggled here in the last five games or so. Charles has given us some
good options offensively getting the ball into the interior of the defense and
up the floor on the break. And Jake was ready to roll. He told me he would. I
explained it to him a couple of days ago, he said he will be ready when he's
called on and he was.



Q. I don't know if this is the norm for you but do you like to run out the
play at the end of the game like that, do you normally keep a timeout in your
back pocket or was it a different situation?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: We didn't want to let them get set with their defense and
maybe take us out of the play that we have practiced every day for that
situation. So if we scored a two on a put-back we would still have the timeout
to get maybe a foul and another opportunity.



Q. You had six turnovers the first couple of minutes and then four the rest of
the way. Not a single turnover in the second half. Any explanation for that?
Were the guys just not focused or too excited?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: I think it's probably a little bit of the latter, their
being overly excited and maybe reaching for a little bit more than was
actually there, opportunities to penetrate that leave you trapped and lead to
deflections. I thought our team really responded well and took care of the
ball the rest of the way and got shots and really got to the free-throw line
the second half.



Q. Looking back on this thing now -- first of all, what your chances are for
the NIT in your opinion, and secondly, was this final couple of months
disappointing or was it more encouraging?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: I think in answer to the first question because we do
want to -- you saw how our team competed there down to the last second. I
think our team certainly wants to play and we would love that opportunity. But
that's in other peoples' hands. The season, we played kind of came on with
some good play, aggressiveness, in the last, oh, month, or three weeks or so
of the season and I think that those are encouraging things. We also saw our
younger players get better right through the year. We had quite a bit of
production out of our juniors and freshman and Charles Richardson, the
sophomore class tonight and Bronsen Schliep out of that junior class as well.



Q. Are you pretty confident that you will be back next season?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: I am going to let that be handled by Steve and Mark. I am
not sure where things -- what they have discussed outside of our conversations
with you folks. I don't know exactly what is taking place yet.



Q. How hard has it been just in the last month or so operating under this like
not knowing what is going on; have you known what is going on with your future
and stuff?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: The operation is the same really every single day. It is
nothing but excuse-making to think other than we have the support -- we have
had Steve and Mark's sport throughout. They want us to be successful, probably
no one wants to be more successful than we do. So that has never changed and
we're focused on doing it better, working harder and working smarter and
getting better. That has always been the case within the season. It is again
now with respect to recruiting and the coming year.



Q. Could you talk a little bit about the play Linas Kleiza, how you guys held
him in the first half, then he scored Missouri's first six points?



COACH BARRY COLLIER: I think we did an okay job defending in the first half
against them in total. But he's a really hard player to guard one-on-one
because he gets -- he's good -- he's a solid shooter, and from the outside and
he can start a drive and finish strong inside and I remember at least, oh,
three or four times when he just muscled through our guys for a put-back.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you for coming. Congratulations on a great season.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Rahshon Clark](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16319)

### [Jared Homan](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16320)

### [Wayne Morgan](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14212)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I thought the key to our game today, we had great
intensity when the game began. We had great offensive and defensive intensity.
Offensively I thought we played well, we made a lot of shots early.
Defensively we really played good defense and they didn't really get anything
early, it gave us an opportunity to get like a lead of like 17.



Q. Rahshon and Jared, is it hard when you are up 21 to 1 and it is a game like
that to keep that intensity level up or because you know what is at stake with
this tournament you can let it ride it through?



JARED HOMAN: You want to try to put the foot down in that position and not
give them a chance to get back in. You give a team like Baylor who is
scrapping for their lives, a chance to get back in the game, and they are
liable to come back and beat you. And we also wanted to get up enough so we
can get the other guys in the game. You know those guys bust their butts hard
in practice, we want to get them some court time so that was big for us to put
some points on the board.

RAHSHON CLARK: He said everything I was going to say. Any other questions?



Q. I know it's kind of a broken record now; how do you feel about your
N.C.A.A. chances; does this kind of sew it up you think a little? What is your
best guess at this point?



RAHSHON CLARK: We are hoping that we did enough to get in the N.C.A.A., but
like I said, at every press conference, we just got to think of it one game at
a time and hopefully everybody will think that we did enough to be in the
N.C.A.A. tournament.

JARED HOMAN: I would have to agree with him. We did enough to this point to
try to get in the N.C.A.A. tournament. I think that's kind of in the back of
our minds right now. We are trying to focus on the Texas Tech the next game
and keep winning games and try win this tournament. We like to think we are in
so we're going to try and focus on winning this tournament.



Q. Do you have initial thoughts on matching up with Texas Tech again?



JARED HOMAN: They are very good team, well coached, they will be ready to
play. They have had a couple of days off so they will be rested. We just
played, we got some -- I don't want to say we are tired, but I think we got a
little game-time experience so hopefully we're sharper. We just got to build
on that win that we had against them at home, look at that film, try and do
the same things and execute the same stuff



Q. Baylor hadn't played in a tournament in two years. You got on 'em pretty
quick. Do you think they might have been a little shellshocked when you jumped
on them 17 to nothing?



JARED HOMAN: When we got up 17 to nothing I think that was just more of us
just coming out determined wanting to win this game. I think Baylor might have
been a little surprised. I think they were confident and they were trying to
come in with the attitude that they needed to to try and win the tournament to
get into post season but I think we were more determined tonight. We worked
extremely hard and worked well as a team to get them out of the game early so
they won't hang around and give them a chance to win it; which was very
important to us.



Q. Can you talk about that opening three you get; how big was that for your
confidence just getting off to a career-high game?



RAHSHON CLARK: I just came into the game with the mindset I was going to make
every single shot that I took. So that was a very big shot. It got me and my
team routed up, so I felt it was a big shot. Everybody else did too. That's
when we just put the pressure on and just started doing what we have to do to
win.



Q. I noticed as you came out in the introductions, kind of get together, your
teammates -- Curtis had to remind you, hey you have got to go out and shake
hands. Then you come out and light it up. Take me through maybe the opening
minutes a little bit and the atmosphere and your reaction.



RAHSHON CLARK: When I first came out I was hyped as you all can see. I was
ready to get on the court, and try to come up with a win. I forgot that I had
to go shake hands, be honest with you, but Curtis reminded me so then I went
out and did it.



Q. Talk about the challenge and importance of keeping Bruce in check?



JARED HOMAN: Bruce is a very good player. We knew he was capable of hitting
three-pointers, especially in our zone we had to make sure that we cheated out
to him, played him a couple of steps over the three-point line, just so he
can't get going. He got some open looks and hit some deep shots. We had to try
and keep him in check. He is one of their better players..



Q. Can it be difficult for a team to keeps its concentration after you got the
big early lead?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: It can be sometimes but one of the things we have had to
do in terms of growing as a team is to be able to sustain your level of play
and your intensity even when you do get a big lead and try to play the same.



Q. Talk a little bit about Texas Tech and how difficult it might be for you
guys to turnaround less than 24 hours and play back-to-back games?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: Well, obviously we have a great deal of respect for Coach
Knight. We know he had a lot of time to prepare so you can only imagine the
various things that he's going to use that we have not had a chance to see. We
have to try to prepare for their personnel more so -- what they are going to
do in a situation like this. We think Texas Tech is a very good team, very
capable team. I think it going to be a very good game tomorrow.



Q. Does this do it for you as far as getting to the big dance?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I think the kids gave a very good answer. We hope we have
done enough to get into that tournament but right now we're in this tournament
and so I think we have got to concentrate on this tournament and we're not in
the position to make the other decisions to know what is going on in the
selection room so the best way that we can help ourselves is by playing well
in this tournament.



Q. The first eight minutes, was this just another case of how your offense
kind of fuels your defense and vice versa?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: Yeah, I think so, Bill. I think our offense helped our
defense and our defense helped our offense because we came out shooting the
ball well and got us into our press and enabled us to get a couple of steals
and to throw them off balance a little bit. So both helped the other.



Q. When a game goes like this when you are standing over there, what are the
things you are looking for and looking at?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: First looking to see if we can maintain our intensity
throughout because that's critical not to let that drop off. And then whether
it's defensive or offensive execution trying to accomplish the things that you
set up in the framework of your game plan.



Q. You like that this game was a little bit -- obviously you guys got a little
bit ahead, be able to rest a couple of guys before tomorrow's contest?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: I thought that our starters played a good amount of
minutes but we were able to rest them a little bit more going down the stretch
and we got some intermittent rest during the game for the guys so hopefully
we'll have fresh legs tomorrow.



Q. In that first game against Texas Tech what do you recall that worked so
well that you need to have work just as well for you tomorrow?



COACH WAYNE MORGAN: Well, I think we have -- to beat a team like Texas Tech
we're going to have to be able to execute in every aspect of the game; in
other words, you are going it to have to be able to play good defense and
accomplish the things you set out to accomplish defensively, you are going to
have to be able to execute on offense in order to have a chance to score. And
in our particular case which is important for us we certainly have to rebound
the ball whenever we have rebounded poorly we have struggled. So we're going
to have to do everything.

_

MODERATOR: Coach, congratulations on your victory today. Good luck tomorrow.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Aaron Bruce](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13911)

### [Scott Drew](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14205)

### [Ryan Pryor](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15054)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH SCOTT DREW: We have had to finish a year on a losing streak, but from a
coaching staff's standpoint I think if you have only seen us play one time
today, it was a perfect example when we got down, it could have easily been a
game with only one senior and game in which we weren't going to win in that
second half to give up and lose by 40 and our coaching staff really felt
pleased with the effort we have gotten all year from our team. We're
undermanned, don't have the experience and some of the talent that everyone
else has, but very excited about how we have fought through this, no one looks
losing and no one likes a losing streak. It's tough to go through that, but to
credit the players they never gave up and I think from here on the future
looks a lot brighter as we have now got some experience and we are bringing in
some players and get up to 12 scholarship players



Q. Aaron, talk about that early run they had. Were you all a little bit
shellshocked by that? Just talk about the start if you could?



AARON BRUCE: That was a big factor in the outcome of game, they jumped out on
that run and they seemed to feel invincible from that. I think it was true
that just having such a young team, I think a lot of guys were nervous or
flustered and even the guys that were older hadn't been in that situation
because we couldn't go to the tournament last year, so I guess it was new
playing under the lights and in a big situation for some of the guys.



Q. Can you talk about having completed your first run through the league, your
first year and just what you think about your decision to come to Baylor and
what the future holds now?



AARON BRUCE: I can't speak highly enough about the league, for starters and
can't speak highly enough about our coaching staff and program here at Baylor.
That's the reason I came, the positivity and the fact that they have that
vision for the next two or three years is great and that's what drove me here.



Q. Ryan, can you talk about your last game? You got in there and hit some
points just maybe -- just what it's meant to you to be on this team as it's
rebuilding?



RYAN PRYOR: Last game I guess disappointing getting a loss, especially coming
in we felt we could compete and hopefully come down to the wire, may be a
closer game, but just thank the coaching staff for giving me the opportunity
to getting there and wrapping up my career in the Big 12 tournament at Baylor
and positive note personally, but it's still disappointing to end in such a
down note on the team-Wise.



Q. Aaron did you feel like Iowa State was really keying in on you today?



AARON BRUCE: Yeah, I mean, they pressed the whole game, so I sort of had the
ball in my hands and to break the press and once it was broken the ball was
out of my hands, so they stretched their zone as well which is a smart move.
Credit them just with playing great defense; having a great defensive game
plan. They took the ball out of my hands.



Q. Aaron, what do you foresee for this team next season?



AARON BRUCE: I am really excited. I am excited to go and work hard during the
summer and come back in and get a fresh bunch of guys. I think we'll have 12
players, so the skies the limit, we have got to come in and see how those guys
can impact and gel. We're going to start again as far as gelling as a team,
very young group still, so I think that will be up to me and a couple of the
older guys. I say that as a sophomore next year, but to let them know how it
is on the road; how it is in the Big 12 and help them to sort of adapt early.



Q. I know it hasn't been very long since this game ended but do you have a
pretty good idea of how much work you have got ahead of you hear in the next
season I guess?



COACH SCOTT DREW: We knew that before this last game ended but again, we
wanted to make sure that we controlled what we could control and that was that
we played hard, competed, Iowa State we thought we had a good game plan going
into it and when you get down like that it changes what you are trying to do.
And again credit them for putting us in that situation. As far as what we have
to do I think it easy to see from an outsider's point of view when you -- as
your talent level improves and depth improves your program is going to
improve. Obviously that happens for us next year. So we're very excited about
that. But we'll still be young and inexperienced, but when your talent level
improves and your depth improves things get better.



Q. You think your guys might have been a little bit struck by the big stage
here today, especially the start of the game?



COACH SCOTT DREW: You look at it no one has been in the Big 12 Conference
tournament and Tommy is the only player that was here before but he was the
last man on the bench, so it's a situation it was new to everybody, and credit
Iowa State again, they hit the shots in the beginning of the game and people
that don't make a lot of threes made some of them early on. From there they
really got there momentum and juices flowing and we just weren't ever able to
recover. We made that one run, cut it to 12, but when you exert so much
energy, to come back you tend to run out of gas from a comeback like that and
you can't just go to the bench and bring in fresh guys, it makes it tough



Q. How do you want this team to be remembered?



COACH SCOTT DREW: I think the biggest thing from our coaching staff standpoint
I think we want to be remembered as a team that represented Baylor the right
way. We didn't have the wins and losses that everybody would have liked
including ourselves but at the same time we had the best fall GPA of any men's
basketball team, we have good kids. Everywhere we go just a hostess -- he has
been a hostess before, came up and said you got the best group of guys and
coaching staff, I have ever been around and I am a Baylor fan for life. We get
that compliment so often because of the type of guys that are on the team now.
I think that's the first step in building a program and we have taken that
first step.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Rick Barnes](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13674)

### [Brad Buckman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13722)

### [Daniel Gibson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13916)

### [Jason Klotz](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16322)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  

COACH RICK BARNES: Pretty obvious all year we have been up and down a little
bit and we're the type of team that we need everybody playing. We didn't get
that tonight. Start of the game I thought we settled way too much for the
three-point shot. We felt like we could should take advantage of them inside
and we didn't do that as much as we should have. I thought Jason played his
heart out tonight. Daniel, again, and Ken, I thought those guys were really,
really playing as hard as they could play and that goes back to we have got to
have everybody and we didn't get that tonight.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for our student athletes.

_ 

Q. Jason, did you feel like overall maybe the energy level was down, you got
off on the wrong track from the start?



JASON KLOTZ: It's hard to tell when you are out there. It felt like we were
playing hard, but you know, kind of lackadaisical throughout the first half.
Almost the same scenario when we played them up at Colorado fighting back, got
to get back into the game, at the end started hitting shots but never got
close. Can't really have late energy in games. Not hitting shots, always got
to have good effort to play well.



Q. Any idea why the energy thing after having almost a week off --



BRAD BUCKMAN: I don't know. I couldn't tell you. I didn't play my best at all.
I didn't really give it my all tonight. It's tough to say that because I let
my whole team down but, you know, I think everybody was ready to go. I think
energy was high, but I mean, I can't explain it really.



Q. The second chance points were Colorado 18 to 6 and that's kind of an
unusual number I think when you look at your two big guys. Any comment on
that?



JASON KLOTZ: I mean, we were in the zone a little bit and got to get our
block-outs. If we block out we can go get the ball. I think we missed a lot of
block-outs. Guys were not blocking when they were supposed to. I think I gave
a few, guards too. You can't do that. Any time you give up second chance
points, points off turnovers, you are not going to win. Especially that lop-
sided. That's a lot of points. They are not even working for it. They are
getting a shot right by the basket. Any time you give somebody a second
chance, even a third chance, it's crazy. Shot always goes in no matter what
type of shot, it falls. You can't do that. Those are big parts of the game.



Q. Thoughts on whether or not that Oklahoma State game got you into the
tournament, if this one could have done any damage to the progress that you
have shown?



JASON KLOTZ: I don't know what they look at and how that's going to play out,
you know. Wish we could have won tonight. We have to sit and wait and see what
happens Sunday. It's one of those things we will have to wait and see.



Q. Brad, obviously you guys are going into some post-season tournament. Do you
think this kills any type of momentum?



BRAD BUCKMAN: I don't think so. I just think it feeds us. It's a tough loss, I
mean, we should have been in it, I think. But it will break a little bit but
we will be all right. We will bounce back. It is just one game. Got to put
this behind us and move forward.



Q. Daniel, did you feel like there was maybe a lack of mental preparation in
taking Colorado seriously since they were 4 and 12 in the conference?



DANIEL GIBSON: No, not at all. I think we knew the importance of the game that
we had in front of us, but I just think we have to learn how -- just got to
play smarter and just know the situations. Like coach said, we started off the
game shooting threes when we knew they couldn't handle our big guys in the
post. So we just got to learn how to be a lot smarter and just control the
games better.

_

THE MODERATOR: Let's take questions for coach barns.

_ 

Q. Rick, comment about how Kenton Paulino's ankle looked?



COACH RICK BARNES: It popped out, that's what happened, it popped back out. He
had to deal with it all year. Like I said many times, he's not going to get
better until the season is over when he has a chance to rest it. But it did
pop out tonight.



Q. Was this game as disappointing as the Oklahoma State game was exhilarating
--



COACH RICK BARNES: I am disappointed because this time of year I don't
understand how guys mentally can't be prepared. I don't. I really, I am
besides myself with it because I don't understand how you know, I mean, I look
at our team and I don't understand again the point about the second chance
points, I mean, Colorado's definitely a more athletic team, we know that, but
that's the reason we have got to block-out, we have got to jump, foul trouble,
just didn't get off the ground, those type plays. We have got to have
everybody. One of the reasons that we settled and didn't go inside was Brad
picked up fouls early, was out of the game and the fouls he picked up he
shouldn't have picked up. It goes off the scouting report, the first foul he
picks up he's playing a guy that drives the ball. He let's him drive it, he
put two hands on him so we never got in the flow that way. We were just trying
to juggle our lineup, trying to get through the half without foul trouble.
Daniel picked up a foul that he really shouldn't have put himself in a
position to get. Jason having to play a long period of time. Mike goes in and
playing really hard he hurts his back and has to take himself out. Then
bounces back. Dion went in and did a good job for us. We have got to have our
guards, especially your upperclassmen this time of year have to be on top of
it. Those are the ones that really have to lead. We didn't get the kind of
effort we have got to have from everybody to be there. Lord knows, they gave
us every opportunity we could in the last two minutes to get back in it.



Q. Do you talk to your club during the week or before the game or half-time
talking about the NCAA in terms of motivation, that must be especially
frustrating for you secondly, are you optimistic about your chances?



COACH RICK BARNES: We always talk, but right now I am just disappointed in the
way we played. I am disappointed in individuals that we know for us to be a
good team this time of year that we have got to play. Our preparation, we
didn't change our preparation, we have gone about the same way, but I just you
know, you can talk about energy and this time of year it's about being
intelligent. It is about being smart. It is about because you are going to
have to make some adjustments and do some things, but it's just the plays that
we made to get in foul trouble, those kind of plays, but again I said at the
end, our resume is complete now, and I think if the committee looks at the
fact that they are going to take the best 34 at-large teams, I think we're one
of them. I do. I do believe that. And I think that they have got to look at
your body of work over the course of the season and if they don't do that, you
know, I don't know why we want to go out and try and play a tough non-league
schedule, but I would be disappointed now the way we finished and what we have
done. We know this can happen in Conference play. It happens all over the
place, but yet, like I said I will be real disappointed if our League doesn't
get representation like we should.



Q. Any relationship between playing so well at Oklahoma State and maybe having
a letdown?



COACH RICK BARNES: Well, you know what, I don't think you can look at --
sometimes you can't group the team together. Daniel Gibson didn't have a
letdown. Jason didn't have a letdown. Paulino didn't have a letdown. Dion
didn't. You go down the line. And you know we obviously have a very small area
to work with here and but we have got to have everybody. You guys watch us all
year, you ask me questions you know the answers to them. It's pretty simple,
we need everybody to play and it if we don't get it, you know, we can get in
these situations.



End of FastScripts...

`  | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+EAST+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [Jim Boeheim](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13725)

### [Hakim Warrick](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13877)

  
_NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Syracuse Coach Jim Boeheim, Hakim Warrick.

_

COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Our defense both nights was the difference. Rebounding has
improved, obviously, over the last -- since we changed to the bigger lineup. I
think the players are more comfortable with it. But, you know, Pittsnogle has
played great through this stretch they've had. We really wanted to find him
and not let him get set. I thought just defensively we were really good.
Offensively we did the things we had to. They trapped us a little bit during
that one stretch, and, you know, we needed Josh to make plays and he made big
plays, getting in the lane, getting the ball to Hak and finishing. West
Virginia has played as well in this tournament as, you know, anybody's played,
I think in a long time, beating Boston College the way they did and Villanova.
I looked at the stats sheet, Villanova had five turnovers and shot 55%. You
know, still lost the game. So this was a great tournament win for us and
especially for our seniors, to be able to win this thing was a tremendous
accomplishment. I'm real happy for them.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

_ 

Q. Jim, can you talk about the last two minutes of the first half. You applied
full-court pressure.



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Well, we've been pressing a little bit. You know, we didn't
get a lot out of it but we did get one or two plays. I was really proud of
Demetris, he looked at that first look, made it, then he got the second one
and made it. We know he can shoot the ball. I think that will do a lot for his
confidence going on ahead in the tournament and for next year, you know. But,
you know, we got a couple steals and Demetris hit those two big shots, made a
couple real good plays to get the lead.



Q. How significant is it to win this tournament to set you up for what's
ahead?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Well, I think, you know, next week I think the game we play
will start out 0-0, so... I don't put much stock in coming off this, you know.
I mean, we want to come to New York and play well and, you know, that's what
we accomplished. If you can win, you know, I think that's a good thing. But
you just want to come out of New York playing well and getting everybody the
opportunity. I think the most significant thing coming out of here is that we
were able to rebound better than we had, and that our defense has really
picked up. West Virginia is scoring a lot of points coming into this game and
shooting, you know, very high percentages. You know, we hold them to, what,
35% from the field. So I think we take that out of this, this tournament.



Q. Not an overwhelming display of euphoria when you came out to accept your
trophy. Surely there's emotion or thought going through your mind.



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: I don't know. I think that I look at this tournament, I'm
really happy to win it. But, you know, it's unfortunate. My mindset has
probably changed, and maybe it shouldn't change, but my mindset is the only
thing that matters is next week, starting next week. You know, maybe that's
not a good mindset; I don't know. It doesn't mean we don't come here and try
to win because we've always come here and try to win, been to the finals - I
don't know - a lot of times. It is nice to win; I feel good about it. But the
reality is, and I think it helps us psychologically, I think the players know
this is good, it will be good for them and it will help us forward, but the
reality of college basketball, if you're a good team, is that it all starts
next week.



Q. How much of a barometer is it with (inaudible)?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: When he gets in there, we win. When he gets in there, gets
that up there... What happens now, which is something I think we haven't taken
full advantage of yet, is when he gets in there and they come to him, we got
two big guys on the block now and we still got Hak to come in there when he
decides to. He's got a limit on how many rebounds. Once he gets to 10, he
stops rebounding.



Q. Were you concerned after such a big, emotional win over UCONN, that they
might have a letdown?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Our seniors, Josh and Hakim, were ready from the beginning.
You know, they were ready to go. Craig has been great for us, you know, but
Josh and Hakim have, you know, there's just no better seniors, you know, than
those guys. They just really have been good all the way through, and I'm
really happy for them to win this championship for those guys. You know,
they're just terrific kids, terrific class, and I'm real happy for them.



Q. Before the game at UCONN last week you said you were basically where you
wanted to be midway through the season. Have you made up a lot of ground?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Yeah, I think a week ago, two weeks ago I said we needed --
we weren't there. I realize sometimes that somebody might think that's kind of
late, "When you gonna get there?" I think we got there, we just got to stay
there now.



Q. Can you talk about Hakim's performance overall?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: I think he played like the best player in the league.



Q. Hakim, as Coach said, maybe what matters most is next week. You've won a
national championship. You never won the BIG EAST tournament. How much does
this mean to you?



HAKIM WARRICK: It means a lot. It's something I realize, coming back, that
we've never even made it to the championship, and to win one is even bigger,
especially for this class - me, Josh and Craig - to go out our last year and
get a BIG EAST tournament is really important to us.



Q. Following up on that, Hakim, will it be easy to put this behind you and get
ready, obviously, for next week?



HAKIM WARRICK: Yeah, definitely. We're definitely going to put it behind us
right now. We'll get right back at it tomorrow and see where we're going and
just go out there and try to get back to this Final Four and hopefully win
another national championship.



Q. It's been a long time since you took home the trophy. How does it feel?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: It's great to win, you know. I mean, we want to come to New
York every year and play well. We have a lot of fans down here. When we lose
early, they're not very happy with me. So, you know, we definitely -- we
really like to win that first game, for sure, then get to the semifinals. Then
if we can go past that, that's good, too. But, you know, it's great to come
down here and play well and, you know, get ready for next week.



Q. Hakim, your club had a really strong week from the sophomore class. Going
forward, how important is it for your sophomore class to play well next week?



HAKIM WARRICK: It's really important. I think they show, when they produce the
way they did in this tournament, it's tough for teams to beat us. We beat
three teams, three different -- they played three different ways. That's what
the tournament is all about. If they can come with that same intensity, we
have a really good shot at going all the way.



Q. For Jim and Hak, with regard to what you were saying about the mindset, did
you make a conscious decision not to cut down the nets here?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: I didn't even think about it, tell you the truth. I don't
know if we've ever cut down the nets here. I mean, I honestly can't remember.
But I didn't think about it. I don't know if Hak did or not; I don't know. I
wouldn't have wanted to, if I would have thought about it (smiling).



Q. Hak?



HAKIM WARRICK: No, no. That's something I think you want to save that for the
Final Four, national championship. This is a really big thing, a big win, but
we definitely want to be cutting down the nets down in St. Louis.



Q. I think you opened some doors for John Beilein over the years.



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: I must have given him -- he must feel sorry or feel I've
done something for him. Nobody ever had to do anything for Johnny; he's always
been a great coach from LeMoine to Canisius, obviously at Richmond and now at
West Virginia. I did talk to the people at West Virginia and Richmond, I
think, too, but he only got the LeMoine job because of his uncle (laughter).
But I told the guy at West Virginia, I said, "You got lucky." He said, "What
do you mean?" I says, "Well, you ended up getting the right coach." But John
is a tremendous coach. We just had better players, that's all.



Q. Hakim, can you talk about the team's improvement in defensive rebounding.
What happened there?



HAKIM WARRICK: We definitely are more active, much more active and aggressive
getting out to the shooters, attacking the defense and offensive glass. When
we're active like that in the zone, it's tough for teams to get shots. When
we're rebounding the way we did these last couple games, it's tough to beat
us. We definitely got to keep that up going into the tournament.



Q. When you thought about your senior year, was this a goal you set out?



HAKIM WARRICK: Yeah, definitely. Definitely. When I came back, this is
something, BIG EAST Player-of-the-Year, BIG EAST tournament, champion, MVP,
couldn't end my career any better, couldn't script it any better. It's just a
great way to go out.



Q. After all of the winning that you guys have done while you've been here,
and you've got the national championship, can you describe why winning a BIG
EAST tournament is significant to you.



HAKIM WARRICK: I like to win. We've won over 100 games, we've won preseason
tournaments, regular season BIG EAST, pretty much did everything except for
winning the BIG EAST tournament. That's something that we had a chance to do
and that's something we wanted to do as a team and as a group. It's always a
big thing, especially in a conference like this. I think it's the best
conference in the nation. If we can go out there and win against some of the
best teams in the nation, I think we can go in there and play against anybody.



Q. Jim, any thoughts about where you'll go next week and where you'll be
seeded?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: No, I really don't. The committee has a difficult decision,
a lot of difficult decisions this year with the upsets, things that have
happened, how some teams have lost quickly and other teams have gone on. Boy,
it's just, you know, we've gotten to a point where we've got so much balance
and so many good teams that, you know, used to be maybe three or four teams
get left out that you'd think, "Wow, you know..." But it didn't happen, but a
team like West Virginia could have got knocked off here, you know, and somehow
not got into the tournament, and you could see that they could win games in
the tournament. My fear would be that a team that can win two, three games in
a tournament might not get in. That's really what can happen now. Nobody's
talking about expanding it, everybody seems to be set. I'm one of the few
people that's talked about it. There's just too many good teams, you're always
going to leave somebody out even if you expand the field. But I think we're,
what, it went from 24 to 32 or whatever, 45, 60, you know, to get to 64, 65,
and there's so many more good teams now than there used to be. There's so much
-- so many teams have a chance to do something real significant. I believe
there will be teams left out this year that could easily win a couple games
and be a factor in the tournament. The tournament fits in a nice package right
now, but I think it's much more important to -- we have the best thing going.
If it has to be expanded a little bit as we look at how many good teams really
get left out, I think we have to look at ways to at least think about that,
because we've got -- just there's going to be a lot of teams left out this
year. The seeding is going to be impossible. How do you seed us? How do you
seed people? You know, I mean, somehow you've got to take into consideration
everything, but the committee is already seeding everybody right now. Now they
look and say, "What do we do with Syracuse? Where do they go? What does this
mean? What does winning the BIG EAST tournament mean?" I mean, I don't know.
They've got a lot of -- the seeding will be very hard. You could be anywhere
from a 3 to a 5 seed or 3 to 6, whatever, and you really say, I guess that
could happen. You really can't tell. It's going to be very difficult. The
committee has a lot of tough decisions to make. It will be people -- just like
everybody dismisses Notre Dame, but they went 9 and 7 in our league - 9-7.
They had the toughest schedule in our league. That's supposed to count for
something. Everybody says, "Well, they lost these four games." It's not
supposed to be what you did in the last four games, it's supposed to be what
you did in the year, that's supposed to get you in or out of the year. They
went 9-7 in our league, it's arguably one of the two, three best leagues in
the country. So why play the hard schedule if you're not going to get credit
for it?



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+EAST+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [John Beilein](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13675)

### [Mike Gansey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15636)

### [Tyrone Sally](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16327)

  
_NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Mike Gansey, Tyrone Sally, Coach John Beilein.

_

COACH JOHN BEILEIN: We congratulate Syracuse. They just played terrific in
this whole tournament. They, in man-to-man right now, no matter what we try to
do with them, they're just so quick with the ball that they just get into the
scene so quickly we didn't have answers for some of that. We just don't get
anything off the backboard with them either. They're a tremendous rebounding
team. Our kids gave every bit of effort that they could, but we were going to
have to have one of those games where instead of going 9-for-29 from three, we
were going to have to go 15-for-29. Then it's a different ballgame. We didn't
make those because we were guarded so well by Syracuse. That's a credit to
their defense. So I got some great young men on this team that I'm so happy to
look at them in the locker room, lose a tournament, a game like this, and know
that we'll be playing again soon.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions.

_ 

Q. Did the fact that Syracuse came at you so quickly, starting off both
halves, did that sort of cause the team to lose its legs a little bit?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: No, I don't think so. I mean, it could, but I mean, three
games and four games, I think it's all a -- everybody's going to be hurting in
those situations. It's hard to win four in a row because some days the ball
just doesn't bounce your way. I think being three or four games, being tired
is probably overrated; you're always tired. And they really didn't get any
space on us until the last three minutes. We had a couple key turnovers, but,
heck, we had seven turnovers in the game. They're a good basketball team, and
we have to play almost a perfect game against them and shoot it like we did
the last three nights.



Q. Did you discover something about yourselves in these four games that you
might not have known you had before, the ability to take it to teams that were
supposedly better than you, especially inside?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: It gave some credence to what I believe in how you should
play the game, but these guys certainly, you know, I think they discovered a
lot, but you'll have to ask them. I mean, I've believed in them from the very
beginning, even through some rough times this year. But they're a pretty
special group.



Q. Coach, kind of trading basket to basket there. Last couple minutes in the
first half they were pressing. They made a couple threes.



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Yeah, I think we only had -- I don't know if we had a
turnover in the second half. Maybe we had one or two. I think we had one
turnover in the second half, two or three critical ones there. But, I mean,
you can't -- they turn out to be critical - wait a minute, you have seven
turnovers in a game. They upped the tempo there and made us play a little
quicker than we wanted to. We just had a couple balls slip through our hands
or made a couple bad decisions. Actually, both times it slipped through our
hands, I think, and you can't fault our kids for that. That was a big
difference in the game, but it's not -- they just have so many great athletes
to rebound and just jump over us. We just had trouble in those areas.



Q. What happened with Kevin Pittsnogle, he has a game that slips in like this?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Well, Syracuse's 2-3 zone is so big, it's tough for a big
-- let's face it, he scores a lot of his points on the perimeter. And so when
you're in a zone, we try to put him on the perimeter, but it's different. When
you're matching him up man-to-man, that's why we play him as a center and not
as a forward. It's a little bit of why, when people want me to play two big
guys, it sort of shows that it's harder to get him open on the perimeter when
people are playing zone.



Q. Did they do something in the second half?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: It's a little bit like our 1-3-1. You can't really key on
getting the ball to one person, there's always going to be a mass of people
around you. That's why it works so well. Did they say "okay," I think they
shaded all our shooters very well. They did a great job of identifying who was
there. But it's more of a team concept, nobody's going to get a good shot.
They're not saying, "We're going to play this defense to stop Gansey or
Pittsnogle," that's the defense they play and it's hard as hell to score
against.



Q. Can you reflect on just a remarkable week of basketball for your team and
getting to the first championship game in the history of the program, the big
stage, New York City, Saturday night.



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Yeah, four nights in Madison Square Garden. You know, if
you look back at the loss at Seton Hall, which was -- there was a lot of tough
road losses last week by a lot of very good teams, and we were one of them,
that was a long week getting ready for that. We were so fortunate to beat
Providence the first two times. I wasn't a relaxed man this week. So now to go
into that, and all of a sudden see your team perform so well, yeah, I've been
fortunate enough to have similar times in my life, but not four times on this
stage. But these kids are going to remember this forever - for ever and ever,
all the way from his shots last night to him, you know, being sick and then...
But they're such a big part of our Providence win and our comeback today.



Q. About the 15-minute mark, you started going for the 1-3-1 half court. You
cut the lead down to 9. Can you talk about that.



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Yes. What we did, Jim is -- because they have what we call
rim runners, it's very difficult to play the 1-3-1 against that, you're always
worried about McNamara. We changed the slides on the 1-3-1 the second time, we
just had a different slide involving different angles. It was enough to give
us a little bit of an edge to get us going. So we were in it, out of it, in
it, we were trying to throw the kitchen sink at them. Without a lot of prep
time, it's tough to defend them.



Q. Talk about getting momentum on your side, the one shot, it looked like it
got things in your direction.



MIKE GANSEY: I mean, I don't know, that zone is very, very hard to get shots
again. Being on the perimeter, you got 6'9, 7' guys out there. It's kind of
tough to drive a little bit in there. Even when you got an open shot, you got
a guy running at you with a hand in your face. Just seemed like none of us
really could get a shot, and then keep on getting consistent shots, making
them. I think this was our problem today, we just couldn't hit a shot.



Q. What does this tournament do for the team?



MIKE GANSEY: I think it gives us a lot of confidence. We beat Boston College,
we beat Villanova, Providence, down five with five minutes to go against
Syracuse. Played four games in a row. Being the underdog every single game,
winning three of them, I think it's a very, very big confidence-booster. I'm
sure whoever we play in the NCAA tournament will be very, very maybe scared of
us, because we're a dangerous team, I guess, now. Now I think everyone in the
country knows that West Virginia is a pretty good basketball team.



Q. John, can you talk about this run.



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: You know what, one of the biggest questions that I get in
the recruiting, and we have five seniors that -- two seniors on scholarship,
two juniors on scholarship, this is a big year coming up. It really hit me a
couple weeks ago when I was recruiting a kid, he said, "Coach, can you get
West Virginia to the NCAA tournament," I responded very positive right away,
"Yes, we can." But you have to do that. You can only say it so many times; you
have to show that you can get it done. I've explained to these kids, that's
going to be an incredible experience tomorrow for them to see where they're
going. We're on spring break. I can't imagine a better way for them to spend a
spring break with all the attention and the hoopla of being in the bracket of
65. So that's what I think it gives us right now, in some big recruiting
years. Yes, whether the philosophy, the system, West Virginia University,
yeah, they can win. And the more we win, the more that we're going to be able
to be successful in recruiting.



Q. You talked about gaining respect with recruits. Can you talk about maybe
gaining respect with basketball fans. This might be the first time that a lot
of people saw you.



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Yeah, we're not on that Big Monday very much, are we?
That's okay. We sort of like that MO a little bit, that we're, you know, just
underneath the radar screen a little bit. But if people like basketball, you
know, I mean, not everybody plays this way. I don't think we -- you know, we
didn't invent the game. We try to recruit certain kids that fit our style. I
think that anybody that saw us would come away from this, not just be a fan of
West Virginia basketball, but say, "Hey, there's a lot of different ways to
drive a team and coach a team and have players play."



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+EAST+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Randy Foye](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13767)

### [Allan Ray](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13760)

### [Jay Wright](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13690)

  
_NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Allan Ray, Jay Wright, Randy Foye.

_

COACH JAY WRIGHT: That was a great college basketball game, one that is
difficult to take, but we have to, that's part of life. We're going to move on
and give West Virginia credit. I thought they played a great game, didn't
surprise us at all. This is the last part of our postseason. We want to learn
from this and move on and win the next tournament. That's what's on our minds
now.



Q. Jay, you said it's tough to take. Tough to take because you wanted the game
decided in a different circumstance? Tough to take because of...



COACH JAY WRIGHT: Just losing the semifinals. We came here, it was our goal to
win the BIG EAST Championship. You know, there's nothing wrong with failing.
I'm proud of our guys' effort, but it just hurts. It's life. We just got to
take it and move on.



Q. When you look at stats, you see it was 55%, five turnovers. Hard to find
stats like that when a team loses. Do you look at that...



COACH JAY WRIGHT: We just didn't do a good enough job taking away their
threes. We knew we had to do it. Give them credit. They know we're trying to
take them away, we try to take them away; we didn't do it. They hit big-time
threes. When they do that, they are very, very difficult to beat. Pittsnogle
picked up one off the floor, loose ball, and hit one. You have to give them
credit. I'm proud of our guys. Our guys gave great effort. Like you said, the
fact that we turned the ball over 20 times, I'd say we didn't execute. You
have to give them credit.



Q. The last second, did it look like a foul?



COACH JAY WRIGHT: You know what, from where I was, I couldn't see it. We will
take that, we'll just take the call and move on.



Q. Considering the magnitude of the game and how well you played, toughest
loss you've ever had?



COACH JAY WRIGHT: I don't know. I don't look at it that way, honestly. I feel
more for our guys, you know. I've been doing this 22, 23 years, I've had a
lot; I can't remember them all. These guys only have a few opportunities to do
this. They gave great effort tonight. I just feel for them. But I also want
them, as young men, to take it and move on, and we got another tournament to
play. We're fired up to play in the NCAA tournament.



Q. Allan, can you talk about what happened on the last play.



ALLAN RAY: He grabbed the rebound and he kind of out -- he kind of jumped up
before me. I couldn't get there right away. My hand got caught up in his arm
as he went up, and the ref called the foul.



Q. Defensively in the first half, do you feel that you put up the effort you
wanted?



COACH JAY WRIGHT: I thought we had a couple of possessions that -- I thought
actually earlier I thought we started off well. Then there was a little lull
that we had a 10-point lead. We just had some poor possessions where they got
it going. Some of it, you know, might have been some mistakes on our part, but
some of them were -- one shot hit the top of the backboard and went in. It was
just one of those nights. It was Allan on Gansey on that play. Hit the top of
the backboard, bounced back in. You just got to say -- but then once a team
like that gets it going, it's tough to stop those threes.



Q. Yesterday you were able to shoot, get to the line 30 times. Today you only
managed 14 attempts. Is that a big difference in the game plan?



COACH JAY WRIGHT: Yeah. They're a physical team. You don't play in this league
without being physical. They did a great job, I thought, of riding us off our
drives when we took it to the basket, just bodying up. I give them credit. We
do like to get to the line more.



Q. Randy, can you talk about the defensive intensity. It looked like Coach was
kind of mad at you guys in the beginning, called an early time-out.



RANDY FOYE: The intensity was where we wanted it. We was just a step late on a
lot of those plays. West Virginia is a great offensive team, and they made
great plays and they scored off of them.



Q. Was there a point where you look and think, "They're hitting everything"?
They couldn't miss.



RANDY FOYE: We really didn't look at it like that. We looked at it like we had
to play together, get stops as a team before we could make a play on offense.



Q. Coach, against Pitt yesterday they had a lot of trouble getting the ball up
court and getting into their offense. What is it about West Virginia that
allowed them to do what Pitt couldn't do against what looked to be the same
defense?



COACH JAY WRIGHT: I thought they just -- they spread the floor a little bit
better. I thought actually we had them. I thought we did a good -- I thought
we did a very good job against, you know -- there's things, little things that
happened in the game. I really look at this as a game that sometimes you do
everything you're supposed to do, and things just don't go your way, you know.
I think anybody that knows our team, I'll take responsibility that our guys
didn't get it done when we didn't get it done, but I thought there were a lot
of times where we did a great job, they were hesitant, maybe we could have had
a turnover, we didn't get it. I just think -- I thought we did a good job. You
got to give them credit for making the plays, you know.



Q. Coach, are you happy with the defensive effort? I know four minutes in you
called a quick 30-second time-out and you looked very animated, like you were
upset.



COACH JAY WRIGHT: Yeah, we had a little -- I said that was that little run
they made, you know. We just had -- might have been like a two-and-a-half-
minute period there where I wasn't happy with the effort, but then they came
right back, you know. Sometimes West Virginia can do that to you, they can
kind of lull you to sleep. It wasn't as much I was mad at our guys' efforts, I
was mad at we were letting them lull us to sleep, standing around instead of
being aggressive. I thought from that point we did a good job. They got it
going. They started hitting some threes. You can't let a team like that get
going. They had eight threes in the first half.



Q. How do you rebound from this game and play the type of basketball you
played all season?



COACH JAY WRIGHT: I think that this is what I really love about this team, is
that we've been able to do that for a few years. Actually, we used to lose a
lot of these games. We practiced coming back from these games. But we haven't
lost a lot of these this year. But I think we do know how to respond. That's
why I said this is going to hurt, this is going to hurt tonight. But tomorrow,
we're going to be fired up about playing in the NCAA tournament, and I know
these guys will respond.



Q. What do the players think about that?



RANDY FOYE: We're going to rebound. We're not going to let this loss get us
down. We're going to keep our heads up, look for the next day of practice and
focus on the next team that we're going to face in the NCAA tournament.

COACH JAY WRIGHT: Thanks, guys.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Villanova.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+EAST+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Josh Boone](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14384)

### [Jim Calhoun](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13682)

### [Charlie Villanueva](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14385)

  
_NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Coach Jim Calhoun. We have Josh Boone and Charlie Villanueva.

_

COACH JIM CALHOUN: Well, first thing, congratulations to Syracuse. We've
played them twice this year. Both those occasions, we were able to eventually
physically dominate them inside. Lost Saturday night in Hartford, Gampel
Pavilion. We did a tremendous job, won by 18 points, dominated them again. And
they turned the tide on us tonight. Physically dominated us in every aspect of
the game. And then with about 10 minutes to go, we played basketball finally,
after two nights of not playing basketball, and we had built ourselves such an
obstacle that we needed every call, break, ball to go in, all the kind of
things you need in that kind of comeback, and we'd come up a bit short. I
couldn't be more disappointed to have it happen at this time of year - not to
get beat, no one wants to get beat in a tournament and go home. But our
performance was not very good. I said that last night. I thought in the first
30 minutes, I thought we were just overwhelmed by Syracuse and didn't respond
the way we needed to respond. If that happens next week, you know, it doesn't
necessarily -- isn't really what we obviously want. Nothing we can do about it
now except go home, regroup. One thing I will say is that Denham Brown, as you
know, was hurt last night. That's why he only played 14 minutes tonight.
Clearly, it would have been foolish with next week coming up to push him any
more. He couldn't move laterally. He's been, I think, our glue. But it wasn't
Denham Brown. We got our butts kicked inside early. You can take your stats
sheet and rip it up as far as rebounds go; they don't mean anything. That
means with 10 minutes to go we were embarrassed, and we responded as good
athletes and prideful kids will and made a comeback and actually probably
could have -- would have had a chance with 2 minutes and 12 seconds to go down
6 for the game, but made a couple mental mistakes and wasn't able to overcome
a big obstacle we set up. But congratulations to Syracuse, they were a good
team. We weren't such a good team tonight for 30 minutes. Last 10 I thought we
played with some passion.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

_ 

Q. Coach, was the zone just better tonight?



COACH JIM CALHOUN: We were worse. Zone had nothing to do with it. What had to
do with it was they kept getting offensive rebounds and building the lead up,
and then we, in turn, reverted to probably a month and a half ago of just
taking bad shots and not -- no crisp movement, no penetration. Our big guys
just sat back on the baseline and didn't flash hard to the middle. Once again,
matter of fact, I think the zone extended even more, the middle was even more
wide open, because for whatever reason, it was more wide open and we did not
take advantage of it when we got inside. And in fairness to the big guys, we
didn't get the ball inside the way we should have when they flashed, but they
didn't flash near enough. So like everything else, it was a combination
between the both. So, no, do I think they played the zone better? No. I
thought we did a good job on McNamara. I do continue to say that post-up play
should be called not just for one player but for all players the same way, and
that's the second game in a row that an individual is outshooting more shots
than we get. I think post-up should go fair. But regardless of that they
physically handled us and we didn't respond. So when we got the ball inside,
they just -- our guys just didn't go strong to the hole, nor did they get good
passing, good position, nor did we act when we got trapped, all that kind of
thing. I thought it was more us. It always has to be given credit to the other
team. They certainly did, without question, Syracuse did a good job.



Q. Despite the deficit, did you guys feel you had a shot in the final two
minutes? What were you thinking when it got down to six, got down to five.



CHARLIE VILLANUEVA: One thing, we still had faith, you know, still had faith
in one another. We dug ourselves into a hole, we tried to get out of it. Fell
a little bit too short. But the only positive thing you can get out of this is
we never gave up.

COACH JIM CALHOUN: One other thing I didn't mention, we were 7-for-18 from the
foul-line. Coming down the stretch, a couple of those foul shots would have
made it a one-possession game, and it would have been a lot more interesting.
So I agree with Charlie, but I don't expect this team to give up. This is a
great group of kids. It's been a tremendous basketball team, in my opinion,
one of the top 10, 15 teams in the country. They didn't play like that
tonight. Nor did they quite frankly play like that the end of the game last
night, so that's a disappointment I have. But I would never expect this team
to just let it happen to them. They responded like I expected them to. But I
was shocked by the fact that we let ourselves get down 22, 23 points.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+EAST+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Jim Boeheim](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13725)

### [Josh Pace](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16332)

### [Hakim Warrick](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13877)

  
_NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Coach Jim Boeheim, Josh Pace, Hakim Warrick.

_

COACH JIM BOEHEIM: This was just a really physical, tough defensive game. Two
teams, I thought our defense was the best it's been all year in the first
half, and most of the second half. The end, the game just got crazy. So I
don't know what you can call that. But they had to fight their way back in,
that was the best way to do it. You know, we were pretty good with the ball.
We didn't turn it over much. And, you know, made our free throws - enough of
them anyway - to win. Our defense was tremendous tonight. We really did a
great job defensively. We did a great job on the boards. You know, Hak was
great. He really has played tremendous basketball down here these two games.
But it was, you know, our first Connecticut game, we were up eight and we just
didn't finish it. We feel that we can play with them, or play with anybody;
they're as good as anybody. But I'm real proud of the way we competed on
defense and, you know, how tough-minded we were tonight, particularly Josh and
Hakim. I thought Darryl Watkins had a tremendous first half for us and was a
real presence in the middle. But Connecticut is going to keep coming after
you, and they did that. That's to their credit. But we hung on at the end.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

_ 

Q. It's been a while since you won a BIG EAST tournament. Can you talk about
that opportunity.



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Well, you know, yeah, it seemed for a long time there we
got to the finals every year. I think we took it for granted. It has been a
while, but it's nice to be there. You know, I just want to come out of New
York every year trying to, you know -- playing well. Some years we've lost
down here but we've played well, and, you know, I can live with that.



Q. Hakim, can you just talk about your fast start. Once you got going it
seemed you got everybody on your team going.



HAKIM WARRICK: My teammates really did a good job just hitting the offensive
glass. Gave me some easy looks, and they left me open. I hit a couple shots
and that got me going. I think that got the whole team going.



Q. Jim, could you talk about having to maintain things when Hakim went out?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Yeah, we wanted to use the clock. I thought we really did a
good job even though we didn't score quite enough. You know, we had a couple
really good opportunities in there where we got them spread and got good
shots. We wanted to use the clock, we wanted to just use as much as we could.
We had enough of a lead unless, you know, we did something really bad, you
know. We got Hak back in there, and he did hit that first shot, which gave us
a little more cushion. But, you know, they came after us hard, and we had just
enough to hold on.



Q. Jim, you had talked about a couple of weeks ago, about not preferring to
use two big guys together because of what it does inside. Getting these big
guys for such an extended period tonight, how much of that is because of what
Connecticut is?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: It's not too much that, it's more that Hak has become
comfortable playing away from the basket. So really, I think, we're not using
-- what I meant with two big guys really is two center post-type players.
Having a center and two big forwards, two big combinations. Hak is playing
well away from the basket now. He gives it an opportunity, when guys like
Boone are going to play him, he can get outside, and get guys like him in foul
trouble. That adds something to our offense and gives him more freedom. We've
rebounded better since we went to that lineup. Terrence didn't have a good
game tonight. I thought he had some really good opportunities tonight that he
didn't capitalize on, but, you know, hopefully, he's getting better and he'll
be able to get better doing that.



Q. What was the difference?



JOSH PACE: I just think we came out aggressive on the defensive end. If you
look at the other two games, we were very aggressive on defense, but I think
tonight, you know, we put together two 20-minute halves, I think. I mean the
first game, like Coach said, we was up eight points and we kind of had a
letdown. The second game we came out, it was tied, we had a good first half,
we came out in the second half and they jumped on us. I think like we been
saying, we have to put it all together, have good two 20-minute halves of
defense and that's what we did tonight.



Q. Your losses this year have been to your "elite" teams. What does it do for
you confidence-wise to get over the hump and know you have a win against one
of those elite teams?



JOSH PACE: I think we always knew that we were one of the top teams in the
league. I think, I mean, just looking at all our games, other than the last
UCONN game that we lost, we had control of the game for the most parts, even
the Oklahoma State game. It was just a matter of keeping that going throughout
the 40 minutes. I think we put together a good 40 minutes and, you know, took
-- we were saying it earlier, towards the end of the year, you're winning most
of your games and then at the end you kind of lose it at the end, you're not
getting blown out. I think it's something else other than questioning how good
our team is. So, you know, tonight we put it together.



Q. Hakim, what about you?



HAKIM WARRICK: Yeah, I agree. I think we showed that we can play with anybody
in the country, and we can play against -- play with the elite teams. We just
didn't show that we can beat them. I think tonight we showed that we can beat
them, and it's a competitive team, and especially on a big stage like this,
just less than two weeks from them blowing us out, to come back and respond
like this, I think it says a lot about this team.



Q. Coach, Connecticut usually has success against your zone. Did you do
anything to change your zone?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: We were just a little more aggressive, we trapped a little
harder. You know, it's the same defense but it's all the activity, it's like
everything else, it's how hard the players play. You know, we corrected a
couple little tiny mistakes that we made. But we were just more aggressive and
we rebounded better. We didn't give them the second-chance opportunities. Then
in the second half, down the end there, we stopped rebounding and they got
back on the boards and really showed what can hurt us. But, you know, we
should have been able to get a couple rebounds at the end but, you know, we
wanted to keep our best ball-handling team in, because we had the lead. We're
going to give them some baskets, but we want to keep our best free throw
shooters and ball-handlers in. They're going to come back. But we were
rebounding better and we were just more aggressive on defense in the first
half, that's all.



Q. For the players, how do you guys like the rough-and-tumble physical style
of play in games like this?



HAKIM WARRICK: We love it. We know coming in, the BIG EAST is a really
physical conference. We knew coming in, I guess, the rap is out that you can
go and play physical with us, but we're not going to back down from anybody,
and we definitely didn't do it tonight. When we're hitting outside shots the
way we did tonight, it's tough for them to be as physical with us. It showed
tonight.



Q. Could you talk about getting hot at the right time, getting hot going into
the NCAAs. Talk about how it puts you in the situation you're in right now?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: I think all that matters in the tournament is that when you
get in the tournament, you play well. That's all that matters. I've seen teams
win 10 straight games, lose their first game of the tournament. It's really
something people just talk about. I don't find it to hold true. We've lost our
last game here, and won the national championship. Gone to the final game
twice. It's just how you play in the tournament. It's not -- I just don't
believe in that. I mean, the teams that, you know, go win their last 10 games
and win the tournament, it's because they're really good, it's not because
they got hot.



Q. If I got it right...



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: You haven't got it right in your life, come on, please.
What a leap of faith that is (smiling).



Q. Amazing what 700-plus wins will do to a guy's ego. I think the first basket
was a second offensive rebound. It looked like they were attacking the basket.
Did you get a sense early on they were going to go after it tonight?



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: Well, I wish I did know that. I've had that sense a few
games, and we got outrebounded by 30, you know (laughing). I don't get it. I
don't have it. I don't know. But there's no question from the beginning we
went on the boards better, you know. We got some rebounds and, you know, we
got them doubling, we got them, you know -- we caught them doubling Hak, that
gives us a chance on the boards where we should get an advantage. People are
going to gamble and double on Gerry and Hak. We have to take advantage of
that. If it's not getting somebody a shot, it's getting guys the ability to go
right to the board and be in position. That's what our other guys got to do,
and I think we could do better because we're really getting a two-on-one
situation a lot on the boards. Usually, it's Josh's man, leaving the trap,
rotating down to help, so Josh then has an opportunity to get to the boards.
When he's going from the guide spot, he's got a little advantage there.



Q. Can you talk about the opportunity you have, you've won a national title.
Talk about this opportunity.



JOSH PACE: Definitely. This is probably the only thing we haven't won. I think
when I came here, Coach had his 600 win, he got his 700. We got a
championship. This is where we want to be, we want to be in this position to
try to win a BIG EAST Championship and, you know, go into the tournament on a
good note.



Q. Can you talk about playing an unlikely opponent tomorrow night, West
Virginia.



COACH JIM BOEHEIM: We're playing our third straight game, we don't play as
many guys as some people, so it's tough, you know. But I feel that, you know,
watching West Virginia play, they play as well or better than anybody over the
last part of the season since Pittsnogle has started to step up. He's playing
great. He's playing as well as any big guy I've seen in a long time in this
league. Inside and out, they have guys coming in, who haven't played, young,
shooting the ball, they're just all really playing well. I think Villanova
came into this tournament, if you want to use this word, as a hot team,
winning nine out of ten games or something. You know, West Virginia just, you
know, took it to them. Boston College, No. 1 team, No. 1 seed in our league,
and it's not just that they beat them, but they had them 25 down. West
Virginia is playing great, John's done a great job getting them back rallied
and they're a very, very difficult team to play especially the way Pittsnogle
is shooting the ball from the perimeter. It's a difficult match-up. He can
beat you from the outside. They're just playing great basketball, it's a great
game, great challenge for us. We're glad to be there and we'll see what
happens tomorrow night.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+EAST+CONFERENCE+MEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [John Beilein](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13675)

### [Mike Gansey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15636)

### [Joe Herber](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16331)

  
_NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Coach Beilein, Mike Gansey, Joe Herber.

_

COACH JOHN BEILEIN: I think Mike just said he can't even feel himself right
now. But they're a very, very good basketball team. They can score in so many
ways on you. We were going to have to have one of those nights where, you
know, we're shooting threes like we did earlier in the year. Looks like
13-for-25. That's the way we have to shoot in order to play at this level. And
when we do things like that, as you saw tonight, we can play with a lot of
people. So we got great kids. Villanova had a great game plan. They forced us
into 14 turnovers. Seemed like there was 44 turnovers again. But we ended up
taking care of the basketball just enough to win the game.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

_ 

Q. Standing out there alone, Mike, at the foul-line.



MIKE GANSEY: Yeah, I mean, it's just hard to explain. I mean, when I got the
foul, I knew I was going to the line, I just looked up, looked around, the
whole Madison Square Garden was standing up. Probably like the whole country
was watching me. I just, you know, I told Coach, Coach looked at me and said,
"I love you." That was all I needed to make it. It's just an unbelievable
feeling. I tend not to smile a lot when I'm on the court. I get down on myself
a lot, but Coach picked me up. I can't explain it, it's just unbelievable.



Q. Mike, do you feel like a team of destiny coming in here with a 1-8 record
in the BIG EAST tournament? To dispatch Boston College and win like that.



MIKE GANSEY: That's what the conference tournaments are about, Cinderella
stories. I would have never imagined this coming into this tournament. We're
trying to hopefully win a game or two to get into the NCAA tournament. The way
we've been playing, our team chemistry, we played probably the best we ever
have all year. It's just unbelievable.



Q. Mike, talk about what happened on the last play. Did you feel somebody push
you from behind on that play? What did you feel?



MIKE GANSEY: I saw Pat shoot the three. It looked short. I just went up and
grabbed it. You know, I think someone was pulling on my shirt maybe or, you
know, maybe hit my, like, back of my side. I just went up for a layup. They
called a foul and I missed it. I was like, "Oh, my gosh." I looked up at the
clock. There was .2. I'm like, "I can't believe I'm in this situation."



Q. Coach, did rallying from the 10-point deficit in the first half give you
confidence?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Yeah, when they really got up on us -- I thought it was 8,
but they got up by 10, I really sensed at that point that we were starting to
give into fatigue a little bit. We made a couple shots. I think we forced one
of our few turnovers that we forced. They riddled the three zone, absolutely
riddled it. They have such a good passing and shooting team. As a result, we
made a couple. All of a sudden I think at that time Villanova might have
thought, "Hey, this team isn't going to go away." Then we really got our
confidence at that time. I think we at the same time -- I don't know what
Villanova thought. I thought we thought, "Hey, we're not going to go away." I
think we all had some ghosts from the last time we played them, when it wasn't
a ballgame for the last 35 minutes; they just destroyed us. So that was
important that we did make that comeback.



Q. Ever been in anything close to that type of situation, Mike?



MIKE GANSEY: Uhm...



Q. Thrown into something like that?



MIKE GANSEY: You know, the only time maybe I hit, like, a shot at the buzzer
or whatever, my sophomore year at St. Bonaventure. We played Boston College.
Not even in high school. Actually I missed a couple of shots to win the game,
but that's, you know, this has been the best, you know, experience I've ever
had. I can't explain it.



Q. You beat a team that shot 65% with five turnovers. What does that say about
the general quality of play in this game?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: You know, we've been winning a lot of games by -- did we
get outrebounded as well? No, we outrebounded them. We have a thing, if we
out-rebound, it's something we usually lose. Yeah, if we shoot like that, you
can see what the three ball can do. Look at the difference. They shot over 50%
from three. But if you can make your threes, you can stay in the game a long
time, especially to spread people out. They're a quality, quality team, as we
already found out back in January. But we have very unusual stats after games.
We care an awful lot about how many assists that we get, you know, how many
turnovers that we have, and that we make shots in the perimeter.



Q. John, you don't have to say it, but I think a lot of us will, you're
probably in the tournament at this point. Can you give us some sort of sense
of what a long, hard climb it's been since you came there. The last team was
in '98. It's been a while.



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Yeah, for me, that was my last team, Richmond was there in
'98 as well. Richmond, we got it back to the point where we were close again
before we left to go to West Virginia. And then when we came in here, the
other leagues I've been in are very cyclical, you can build a program in three
or four years and get to the top. It's tough here to build a program in three
or four years and to get rid of the Connecticuts and Syracuses that never go
away. So I think last year, started in a sense, this is going to be really
difficult to get to sixth or seventh place.



Q. Did you realize that at the time, how tough it would be?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: What I wanted was the opportunity to coach at this level
and the opportunity to build another program, and see what we could do and try
to do it with kids like we recruited right here. And if it didn't work, it
didn't work, to get to the NCAA tournament. But I was hell-bent on doing it
the way I had done it in the other program. My staff had done it, not just me.
There's a lot of people involved in this whole deal, from the secretary to the
strength coach to everybody. They do what they're trying to do the right way



Q. You beat two opponents in a row. This game was closer than the BC game, but
what does that say about this team? How have you been able to overcome the
nerves playing in the league?



JOE HERBER: Yeah, as we saw yesterday, it's pretty difficult for us to play
with a large lead. We weren't really used to that this season; we had a lot of
close games. I think it shows our maturity level. I think we have a lot of
juniors -- not a lot of seniors, but a lot of juniors. We've been playing
together for three years, our core, and I think that's the key.



Q. (Inaudible)?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: To get some backdoors. Yeah, although Kevin and D'or, you
know, have gotten much better in their time with us at scoring inside, not too
many people are going to score on Fraser. You know, even Sumpter when he
guards down low. They switched a lot of screens on us today, and as they did
all those things we had to make very important reads. So, you know, we have to
-- we don't have that traditional team that just attacks you inside, attacks
you inside, very much like UCONN would do. We have to play from the outside
in. The way we get it inside is drive it or backdoor it.



Q. Can you just talk about at the end there, Joe makes that big three, the
confidence these guys are playing with right now, no hesitation to take the
big shots?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: It's so much like we were playing earlier in the year when
we had some big wins both at home and on the road, that we -- shooters, you
got to keep telling them to keep shooting it, keep shooting it, and you can't
turn down an open shot. Joe does not shoot enough, right? The only guy that
probably shoots it too much is my son, he's the one that shoots it more than
anybody out there, but we still love him doing it. That's a joke. Joe, I got
to get him to try to look at the basket as much as Patrick does. He's just as
good a shooter.



Q. Does it take a special player not to hesitate in that situation, with so
much on the line?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Yeah, I think that -- they're not thinking about it. I
don't think, Joe, why don't you ask him?



Q. Do you even think about the situation there?



JOE HERBER: No, not really. I think I hit two shots before -- two threes in
the game before, and it felt really good. I was open, I just let it go.



Q. John, when did you (inaudible)?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Actually before he shot. As a player-coach situation now
here, too. (Inaudible) he's Patrick's roommate, all these guys, I love them,
without question. But Mike, since his transfer, has become very close to our
family because he's Patrick's roommate, so we see him a little bit more, even
though we do split the bills and everything so I don't have any violations.
He's a wonderful young man, and I do love him.



Q. Mike, would you explain that reverse layup in the first half.



MIKE GANSEY: You know, Joe dribbled, I think I shirted on him. It was kind of
a back door, we just read it. I got it and went up. I was going to go up and
lay it up, I saw Fraser, big arms, big body coming at me. That's I guess my
patented move - I have one move - my reverse layup. A lot of times I do
reverse layup when I have a wide open layup. It just happened so I did that,
and it luckily went in.



Q. Who are you rooting for now?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: (Laughing) that's what people ask. Neither of them. I
mean, they're both -- talk about being winless or having a bad record here, I
played against both - all my teams, Canisius, Wright, Richmond, here, played
against both these guys, got a big goose egg against both of them. It's going
to be very difficult. They have great teams. We're going to enjoy this one.
Less prep maybe than we even did today. We just got to play ball right now
because we're playing four games in four days. Just do our best.



Q. What about you guys?



MIKE GANSEY: Seems like at this time it doesn't matter who we play. You know,
it's BIG EAST basketball, the tournament. It doesn't really matter, I guess.



Q. Coach, you're a game away from being the first BIG EAST team to go in four
days. Has that been on your mind?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: No, not one -- a gentleman just said to me a second ago --
no. But I tell you what, when we practice four days in a row, we practice
pretty darn hard. That's one of our problems, when I say "dive on the floor,"
these guys dive on the floor. We're not as athletic as some teams, so we wear
down. So they've been through this all year long. Four of our practices are
hopefully - you have to ask them - are as tough as four games. But at the same
time, we're playing against our scout team. We're not playing against Hakim
and Charlie Villanueva and all those guys out there.



Q. Can you give me the Reader's Digest version of transferring.



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: When he transferred? It's really unique. When I was at
Richmond, we played St. Bonaventure two times - once in the tournament and
then once at Olean, where I had some experience getting my butt kicked in
Olean before. We're watching film. He's from Cleveland, Ohio. In Richmond, I
said, "We got to get guys like Mike Gansey. Mike Gansey belongs at places like
Richmond." When we came to West Virginia, you know, we've had success having a
transfer almost every year. When we heard that Mike was going to transfer, we
went after him like he was the top recruit in the country, and like he was
LeBron James to us at that time. He was the No. 1 guy that we wanted, because
he fits how we play and the personality of our team.



Q. Can you talk about overcoming adversity, Sally gets sick, Frank Young steps
in. Earlier in the year, Pittsnogle steps in.



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: I think we really pride in these kids of not being kids
that have excuses or finger-point for others and blame their problems on other
people, take ownership of your life and take ownership of this team. They did
that. Adversity always seems to do this. Tyrone was not in a good zone out
there today still. He'll be back tomorrow because we're going to need his --
he should be fresh tomorrow. But these kids, Frank Young has been waiting all
year, all year, all year, and we just tell him stay with it, stay with it,
stay with it, and now it comes, now it happens. So I think it's a great lesson
in life for them right now about whether your job, your marriage, whatever's
going on, stick with things and make them work, take responsibility, don't
point fingers.



Q. Coach, in this league you have to execute the lead in the second half.
You've been able to do that more in this month than in February, than you were
in January. What's the difference?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: I don't think we had the lead a whole lot in January. We
ran into that span of Villanova and Notre Dame. We're better when we have the
lead. I mean, there's no question about it, because we're not a great comeback
team. We start pressing with this team, it's probably not a good game plan. So
we need to have the lead. Once we got the lead, we're pretty good at
shortening the game and trying to find opportunities to score while we defend.
But like I say, Villanova played, you look at the stats, we didn't defend them
as well as we would have liked to, but we were able to win the game.



Q. John, does this team have enough left in the tank?



COACH JOHN BEILEIN: Oh, yeah. Knowing these guys right now, and because we are
-- have gotten deeper with Frank's emergence, Luke Bonner coming in today,
we'll play tomorrow, probably a 10-man rotation. So everybody's just got to
give us enough. We got some rest for some people today, and we'll try and do
that again tomorrow. I don't think that will be -- I hope that's not an issue.
The issue is gonna be the talent, once again, that we're going to face. We're
going to have to do another 13-for-25 to have a chance.

_

THE MODERATOR: West Virginia, thank you.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

