|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 27, 2005

  

### [Kelenna Azubuike](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16335)

### [Chuck Hayes](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14498)

### [Tubby Smith](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13960)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: We're joined by University of Kentucky head coach Tubby Smith,
student athletes Chuck Hayes and Kelenna Azubuike. We'll begin with opening
comments from the coach.

_

COACH SMITH: It is tough any time you get a loss at this stage of the game. I
thought we had a great play to get it to overtime. Patrick made a great shot
there. I thought we had things in hand there. I have got to compliment and
congratulate Michigan State. It was a hard fought game. They deserved the win.
It is just going to be -- you know, we're going to miss our seniors.



Q. Chuck, can you just describe what you guys were going through while you
were waiting for the decision about Patrick's shot and what you thought during
that time?



CHUCK HAYES: Well, we know we needed a three at the time. If we were to miss
the attempt and kick it back out and try to get as many three point attempts
as we can in that amount of time. Patrick made a great shot. He was able to
back down the shot with a man in his face. That built momentum going to the
first overtime.



Q. Chuck, during the time you were waiting, what was that like?



CHUCK HAYES: Scared. I was praying and hoping from the angle they were seeing
it from it was a clear-cut 3-pointer. You want it to end like that. I just
knew if they were to call it the three, we would pull away from the first
overtime.



Q. In the first overtime you got ahead by four and then that sequence when
they got five offensive rebounds and Brown hits it three, how important was
that to the outcome?



CHUCK HAYES: Well, that was a very critical part of the game, late from the
game in the first overtime. We scored and Randolph made a great move. It was
there was no prize in the game after basketball than the ball itself and we
couldn't get a hand on it.



Q. Chuck, could you talk about the possessions at the start of the second
overtime. Maybe some guys were standing around. What did you see?



CHUCK HAYES: We were running the play and that was successful for us during
that time. They were able to adjust and they made the adjustments that they
had to do defend it. We were looking for answers. You have to give them
credit. They did a great job defending the play.



Q. What happened at the end of the first overtime in not getting the shot off?
Did you get the ball too late?



KELENNA AZUBUIKE: I think since I got it I should have tried shooting right
away. I tried to create some space. By the time I did, the time ran out. I
probably should have just shot it right when I got it.



Q. Chuck, can you just put in words the emotions that you are feeling now to
play this kind of game?



CHUCK HAYES: It was a great game. It was a great game and sometimes you get it
and sometimes you don't. You figure if you give everything you have and all
your hard work, you know you will get the result that you want. The years that
I put in here and the season that I have had and the hard work I put in the
preseason and this whole season, sometimes you get it and sometimes you don't.



Q. Chuck, you had four fouls for a long time. Was that sitting out and waiting
to get your minutes back in, was that difficult?



CHUCK HAYES: Yeah, it was. It is hard to play when you are in foul trouble. It
takes aggression, the aggression that you want to play with. It helps you play
smarter. I was hampered with foul trouble late from the second half and
practically the whole game. I just wanted to be smart. I still wanted to play
with aggression, but I had to know when to use it and when not to.



Q. Can you talk about I think you were two for six today. Can you talk about
their defense, your involvement, that sort of thing?



KELENNA AZUBUIKE: I give them credit. They played good defense. I was trying
not to force anything. Trying to let it come to me. You can't blame anybody
but yourself. I blame myself for not stepping up more and not helping this
team out some more.



Q. For people watching this game it will go down as just a fabulous, great
NCAA tournament game. Do you think in spite of your pain now in time you will
be able to see it that way?



KELENNA AZUBUIKE: Yeah, I definitely see it that way now. There is no doubt
that was a great game. We are just upset we didn't get the win. We have to
give them credit. They played a great game. They made the stops when they had
to and they made baskets when they had to.



Q. When they turned it over the first two times to start the first overtime,
did you sense they were discouraged and it was a chance to jump on them right
there?



CHUCK HAYES: Yeah, like I said, we got the tip and we had all the momentum
from the end of regulation. We scored and we got the turnover. We knew they
were going to break but you have got to give them credit with the experience
they have. They got the offensive rebounds they had to get and they knocked
down the three point shot they had to get at the time.



Q. Chuck, what impressed you the most about Michigan State?



CHUCK HAYES: Well, they are well coached. They are a well-coached team. Even
at times where we make runs or they were down what impressed me was that their
seniors, the experience that they had, I feel like they have been there before
as a team. They knew what to do to get the job done.

_

ROB CAROLLA: We're out of time with the student athletes. Thank you.

_ 

Q. Coach, Shannon Brown has had a great game with a lot of 3-pointers. He
wasn't shooting that well coming in the game. Was that a surprise?



COACH SMITH: Obviously we didn't do a good job of challenging him and taking
away shots. I know he got some shots in transition. You know, when you raise
your level of play like he does -- they have got some athletes to match up. It
was a tough one for us. We knew it would be a tough match-up.



Q. What was your sense when you were waiting for the three call? Did you get a
good look at it yourself?



COACH SMITH: You see it. I couldn't see his feet were behind the line. The
officials had a better view. We were just trying to keep the guys positive and
talk about this overtime and talk about what we were going to do. It seemed
like it was lasting for eternity. It was a great, great shot and a great play.
A great effort on Patrick Sparks' part and our team's part. We got it back
late to get that one off. That was very dramatic. It will go down in history
as a great college basketball game. It hurts right now. I am sure these guys
will appreciate it later on.



Q. At the end off the first overtime when the ball was shot and went out of
bounds, did you call a play or what were you looking for there? Was Rondo
going to create something?



COACH SMITH: When was this?



Q. At the end of the first overtime?



COACH SMITH: When he didn't get a shot and Kelenna dribbled around? Yeah. We
wanted Rajon to try to beat his man off the dribble and penetrate. I think he
pitched it to Kelenna and I think he waited until seven or eight seconds. We
held it to the right time. I hoped he would take it all in. We were looking to
get a foul. We probably should have dumped it inside. We were running the
play. They were defending it pretty well and trying to get it inside to Chuck
to try to draw the foul. You hand it to Kelenna and hope he would jump up and
shoot it, but he didn't.



Q. At one point in the second half, Michigan State was 15 of 18 from the
field. What did you see from their offense and your defense in the second
half?



COACH SMITH: Just poor -- I thought we just -- they really started taking us
off the dribble. We just couldn't stop them. You get in that shooting zone
sometimes and we were having defensive breakdowns. That is pretty much what
was causing the great shooting on their part. They made them and you have to
give them credit. They made some big shots. A lot of it has to do with
experience and being able to make those plays. My hat is off to them.



Q. Ramel Bradley stepped in when Rajon got in foul trouble. Could you comment
on his contribution then and if you know anything about his injury?



COACH SMITH: He has had a couple of concussions this year. We were concerned
about that. He took a very hard fall there. He seemed to be coherent and okay.
He definitely had a concussion. He hit his chin. He was doing okay when I left
him in the locker room. That was tremendous effort. We kind of threw the ball
up there for grabs. He did a -- we were looking to attack. We thought we had
it over the top. He went over it and the collision took place. When Patrick
went in I think there was 20 seconds left in the game. But he is a tough kid.
He has a hard chin. He will recover. He did a good job for us. I was impressed
with his running the team. I think our situation is very solid there for the
future with our back court with Patrick, Ramel, Rajon and guys like that. I am
proud of the effort they gave, especially Ramel.



Q. Offensive rebounding was really crucial down the stretch for Michigan
State. Talk about that. What was going on when the -- the sequence with three
or four key offensive rebounds for them?



COACH SMITH: Chuck is a guy that gets a lot of those rebounds. When he is
hampered with fouls -- they were really just controlling both backboards,
especially the offensive glass. That is demoralizing when you give up two and
three offensive rebounds. I think it was couple of air balls, balls shot on
the basket. One of things, Davis dunked and we fouled him twice on it. Those
are critical plays, scores that just take the wind out of your sails. You work
so hard on defense, to have that type of breakdown, it will crush you. Again,
that is what Michigan State does as well as anybody in the country, is attack
the boards.



Q. About the collision. You said it was a --



COACH SMITH: It was a hard fall.



Q. Tubby, on that subject, from our side of court, could you see from your
vantage point whether or not there was some contact when Sparks shot that
three point shot?



COACH SMITH: You never know. I thought there was contact. But then again, you
can't see -- the official had a better view than we did.



Q. Can you share what you are feeling about Chuck right now?



COACH SMITH: Chuck is a special person. He is special young man. He
understands what it means to -- what sacrifice means, what commitment means.
He is a living example for all players to follow. He respects everything about
college basketball that is good and wholesome. Certainly we're going to honor
him. He has done so much for us, things that you can't really look in the box
scores and see. We just hope and pray that he is able to continue to reach his
dreams and goals. I know he wanted this pretty bad. It just leaves an empty
feeling when a person has worked as had as he has. He has done everything the
right way. He will be someone that is always in our memory and always a part
of our family, the Wildcat family. We love him. Again, great career and a
special person.



Q. Tubby, I know any loss is disappointing but just from the emotions
standpoint and ups and downs and everything, is this the most disappointing
tournament loss for you?



COACH SMITH: I thought our guys had a tremendous year. I have had a chance to
-- just to get to this point, I thought we had a chance to move on to the
Final Four. I know that we still have a very young team with a lot of
potential. The future is very bright. Knowing that, I am not going to dwell on
it. No one has prepared any harder all year long. These guys, my staff, we
haven't had any days off in forever, seems like. So, I know these players have
just been a joy to work with. It is disappointing but it is gratifying to know
that I think they gave it all they had all year long.

_

ROB CAROLLA: We're out of time, Coach. Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 27, 2005

  

### [Maurice Ager](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16336)

### [Alan Anderson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14531)

### [Shannon Brown](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16340)

### [Paul Davis](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15025)

### [Tom Izzo](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13984)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: We're joined by Michigan State. We'll begin with some opening
comments from the coach and then open it up for questions to the student
athletes.

_

COACH IZZO: Well, I can't be prouder of this team. I thought it was one of the
great games of all time, but it seems to me all-time. I am sure because I was
in the middle of it. Both teams played so hard. Both seems played so well at
times, made some mistakes at times. For a college basketball game and in this
city I thought the fans were awesome and the game was second to none. When I
talked today Greg Gumble and Clark Kellogg, they said can you top the game?
They were talking about the game from last night. I am not sure it topped that
game. I think in some ways it was every bit as good. I am proud that Kentucky
played their tail off too.



Q. Shannon, did you talk to Dee yesterday before or after the game, did you
think you would see a game that topped his?



SHANNON BROWN: I talked to him today. You get a chance to talk to him
yesterday. I talked to him today. He told us to go out there and play hard.
Hopefully we'll have three Big-10 teams in the Final Four. But unfortunately
we only have two. He wished everybody luck.



Q. What is going through your head in the huddle when they are waiting to
decide if it is a two point shot?



MAURICE AGER: The coaches, they really step up in the part making sure we will
still be ready to play. At the same time, like hoping the game will be over.
But I don't know, it worked out fine. We still came out on top. A lot of
thoughts run through your head. You want to see what is going to happen.



Q. Can you talk a little bit about what this means to the team, to the
seniors, to be in a Final Four? This team has gone through a lot of people
saying what they don't do now you have done something very few times?



ALAN ANDERSON: I feel like everything happens for a reason. We took a lot in
and in the past year we felt like we weren't getting nothing out of it. It is
like a period at the end of a sentence. We're in a senior year and for the
guys to our right to step up and pick us up it is just a team ball, man.
Everybody played a team effort.



Q. Could any of you guys, especially Shannon, describe the sequence for the
three when you were down by four in the first overtime?



SHANNON BROWN: I think we wanted to get the ball. We were trying to be
relentless. We were getting in there, grabbing them, kick them out. We got a
couple good looks then finally got the ball to me. I put it up and it went in.



Q. You missed free throws against Iowa in the Big-10 tournament?



ALAN ANDERSON: Coach smashed them tapes. It jumped right out of me. It was
done by then. We said it was going to be a new season. We had the Big-10
regular season end, then we had Big-10 tournament, then NCAA tournament. So it
was three seasons. With the hammer coming down, them tapes is out the way. It
was either put up or shut up, pretty much.



Q. Mo, did you feel like today you were playing a road game?



MAURICE AGER: Not really. It felt like it was easy. We had our fans on one
side. Kentucky does carry a lot of people when they travel. At the same time
we didn't feel like a road game. It was a neutral site.



Q. Obviously you're focused on winning the game and the result. At any point
in this game, were you guys able to realize what a great game it was? Were you
able to enjoy the fact that it was one of the greatest games that maybe you
ever played in?



PAUL DAVIS: I think when they were trying to look at that shot and see, one of
our coaches said this is what we are here for. Then it went to another
overtime and, you know, we just -- it was a battle on both sides. I don't know
if it has hit us yet, but I am sure it will when we get home.



Q. You got a lot of attention for you dunks.



SHANNON BROWN: I have been working a lot on my three point shot. I have to
thank my teammates for having the confidence in me to give me the ball. It was
just staying focussed and trying to shoot it the same way every time.



Q. You have been talking all tournament about making memories. What kind of
memory is this game going to be?



ALAN ANDERSON: Man, it was double overtime. It was like, man -- a lot going
through my head. I mean, just like to be playing for your team it's great. In
college and part of that you know, we still are practicing. I don't know
timewise if it was a great thing. We are looking forward to practice on Monday
and going to work. It is just a feeling you can't describe.



Q. Duke, Kentucky, Carolina, probably the three premiere names in college
basketball --



SHANNON BROWN: I think we did. It is all about having confidence without being
cocky. We believed in ourselves. When coach smashed those tapes it was a new
season. We knew what we had to do. He got the blueprint. He has been here
before. We knew what we had to do. It was about us listening to the coaches
and handling our basketball.



Q. Can you talk about the defense that you all played. They didn't score a
point until the 1:52 mark of the second overtime. Alan, can you talk about the
free throws that you made from the second overtime?



SHANNON BROWN: I think we tried to be aggressive. We didn't want to back down.
They are a bunch of great players. They tried to take it at us, we tried take
it at them. We tried to be aggressive and challenge every shot. Some people
got fatigued. But we just tried to stay aggressive the whole time and get up
in them.

ALAN ANDERSON: The free throws, everybody wanted to step up and knock them
down. It was like usually you have one guy that needs to be on the free throw
line. Everybody stepped up, whether it was KT Shannon, Mo, Paul, when you have
it like that, you foul anybody the confidence is just out the door.



Q. Can you talk about how the team rebounded emotionally from all that waiting
around? You hung in there and persevered?



PAUL DAVIS: That is where I think our chemistry comes in play and, you know,
we didn't wan to come out today -- and the Duke game was a big high for you
us, we didn't want to have that be our so-called championship. We wanted to
come here and try get to the final Four. When that last shot went in and they
counted it, we held it up as the group. Those guys wearing the green jerseys,
that is how we won the game.



Q. Paul, could you talk about the dunk in the second overtime. And also how
gratifying it is to play good basketball?



PAUL DAVIS: Alan did shut that up. He made a very nice drive to the basket and
he missed it on purpose because he saw me coming. (Laughter.) He drew a couple
of guys and that left it wide open. I was trying to put my two cents in this
big win. It was unbelievable. I don't think they counted it as an assist. But
it just shows that everybody has got each other's backs.

_

ROB CAROLLA: We're out of time with the student athletes. Good luck at St.
Louis.

_ 

Q. What do you do in that six or seven minutes where all officials were
looking at the clock. Do you just coach them like it was going to overtime?



COACH IZZO: I told my guys -- I sat there and looked a little bit. I just said
it was good. I said the basket was good. I have been in a couple other
overtimes in other years and I thought I did a poor job of maybe reenergizing
my guys. We beat them the first time. They made a heck of a play. Give them
the credit. That was the approach I took. It was good. So lets get a mindset
now that we have to play another five minutes. They rallied around that pretty
good. It seemed like that shot hung on the rim forever. I was counting the
seconds it was up there wiggling around.



Q. Can you recall or compare the feeling of getting to this Final Four with
the one in '99 and also just in general your range of emotions today?



COACH IZZO: Well, in '99 the first Final Four is like your first kiss, I
guess. It was hard to compare anything to that. There were some memories.
After what these guys have ben through, I think this was the most satisfying
of all of them. Maybe because I realized how hard it is to get back to a Final
Four and how many great coaches that I have respect for. This one for me was
special. There is no question. I felt guilty that I put these seniors through
more than they deserved. Now it is rewarding. What didn't kill us made us
stronger. I think we survived today.



Q. Two things, what did you do different on Sparks in the second half and also
what did you say to Chuck Hayes as you were leaving the court?



COACH IZZO: On Sparks we did something completely different. We came up with a
hell of a game plan the second half. Just trying to keep someone within two
feet of him. I was disappointed in how we played. I give him credit. He would
run off the screen and we were nowhere within five feet off him. That was part
of our big game plan. We talked about there is going to be a guy we are going
to footprint him. We were going to have a guy with him. I thought for the most
part we did. Chuck at the end, I coached him in the Pan American games -- I
said to Tubby, he happened to come by the practice. He says he is your kind of
guy. It took me ten minutes and I knew he was making my team. He wasn't the
biggest or the best but I think he is their version of Mateen Cleaves was for
me. What Magic Johnson was to Jud. He is a winner. There were certain
characteristics that some people have that define everything he is. That is
what I think of Chuck. I told him that I love watching him play. I felt
privileged to coach him a little bit. Anything I can do I would love to help.



Q. You alluded to the slow start you had at the start of the first overtime
and your first basket came late. Can you talk about that stretch?



COACH IZZO: I was disappointed. You know, every broadcaster known to man
always talks at the end of the game about it is not the shot it is the missed
shot and getting the rebound. I went off that in the huddle. Once they take
that we have got to get five guys there. When the overtime started, we missed
a good shot I think. We made one free throw of the two or a pretty good tip
play that I stole from your Notre Dame game, coach Heathcote way back when you
were younger. During that period, we came down, they scored, we turned it
over, then we turned it over again. We looked real sloppy. I was concerned
that maybe the wind was out of our sail. What a great way to do it when you
get offensive rebounds. Then you bury a three at the end. That gave us an
emotional lift.



Q. Could you talk about your defense at the end of the first overtime and the
first two possessions?



COACH IZZO: I told Kelvin he did a great job. We left him on a island there.
He had Azubuike on one side. Rondo is a great player. I thought Torbert did an
unbelievable job of leveling him. I think the credit goes to KT. We tried to
shrink the courts and pack it in like a three two zone. I guess everybody did
a good job but he did the best.



Q. Coach, after seeing those two games yesterday what you went through, is
there anything left for the Final Four?



COACH IZZO: I am hoping that we can have two games out there as good as these
were. I was proud of Wisconsin today. They played unbelievably well. I was
pleased for Bruce Weber. Maybe the Big-10 and Michigan State were kind of
anonymous this year. It seemed like our league had to struggle and earn their
way. I thought that was what our team did. I am hoping it will pay off for the
Big-10.



Q. Can you go back two weeks when you are coming out of a Big-10 tournament. I
am sure there was a moment when you said we can go one or two ways here. We
can back out in the first round or maybe there is something more here. Did you
feel like that? When along the timeline did you start to sense it was going to
happen?



COACH IZZO: I probably will embarrass him and he will be mad at me , but Jud
called me. He is sitting back there. He gave me a call. He knows me like a
book. He knows my strengths and weaknesses. He came up with the tape idea. He
came up with the idea of you have to put the season behind you. He had to
convince me. He said get your players to believe, take the good things you
have done and eliminate the bad things and move on. I took that and took it
another step or two to make it have an impact. The credit goes to him. A lot
of people call you after wins. He called me because he knew what I was going
through. He probably gave me advice that helped us get to the Final Four.



Q. Tom, can you talk about the defense? It seemed at the end of the first
overtime that you couldn't get a shot with 25.5 seconds left. And then the
free throw shooting?



COACH IZZO: We said at the seven minute mark in the huddle , I just kept
telling them I am glad it is here. It will prove our point more. We wanted to
do so much more for ourselves. I don't know if I was trying to convince myself
of that or my team. We talked about it. As it got closer we ended up pulling
Tran in some and we were switching four and five spots. I think that is why we
held them without getting a shot off. The free throw shooting that was part of
selling our players that we're not trying to do something we have never done
before. We are not trying to reinvent the wheel. We were a great free throw
team for a year and three quarters. For some reason we faltered a little bit.
It was going back and working on it more. It was just telling ourselves that.
We led the nation all year this year. Just go out and do what we do. I made
sure Anderson got to the line at the end every time we could get him the ball.
Because he was our best free throw shooter.



Q. Initial impressions of North Carolina?



COACH IZZO: It is ironic. I guess our players talked about "revenge tour"
because we thought we might get Syracuse. In North Carolina the only irony is
my assistant, Doug Wojcik, helped recruit most of those players on the team. I
have great respect for him. We played his teams at Kansas. I know they are
extremely talented, big. They have some depth. They have speed. They have
athleticism. They have shooters. It was why everybody has picked them all year
long. You know what, what a better way to go about it. You think of a better
way to get to a Final Four than beating the two programs we beat. You think of
trying to advance by beating that team. To be the best you have to beat the
best. We will have our opportunity.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Coach, we're out of time. Good luck.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 26, 2005

  

### [Kelenna Azubuike](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16335)

### [Chuck Hayes](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14498)

### [Randolph Morris](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16338)

### [Rajon Rondo](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16339)

### [Tubby Smith](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13960)

### [Patrick Sparks](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14499)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: We're joined today by the University of Kentucky student athletes
Randolph Morris, Kelenna Azubuike, Chuck Hayes, Rajon Rondo and Patrick
Sparks. We'll open it up for Coach to make a statement.

_

COACH SMITH: First we're just excited to be moving on. We're coming off a good
win for us against a very good Utah team. We have to play a better game
against a very tough and athletic Michigan State team.



Q. Patrick, what does it feel like for you as somebody who grew up wanting to
play here and not being able to start at Kentucky and then ending up there?



PATRICK SPARKS: It has been a long ride. I am glad to be part of the Kentucky
basketball family. It has been great. This is a big reason I came to Kentucky,
to win the tournament. We're taking it game by game to try to keep getting
wins.



Q. Chuck, your coach just described Michigan State as tough and athletic. Are
those words that you would use to describe your team?



CHUCK HAYES: With Michigan State, they are an experienced team. They have a
solid group of veterans. They take after their coach like we go. You have two
teams that are practically the same. It should be a good game.



Q. What do you know about Michigan State and the way they like to push the
pace and what kind of responsibility do you think that will put on you in
tomorrow's game?



RAJON RONDO: Drew Knight is a good point guard. They have great athletes that
run. They will have to finish at the basket.



Q. Chuck, you have a couple of freshman that you rely heavily upon. Can you
talk about their development and maybe if you guys have exceeded expectations
considering how much you rely on the youth?



CHUCK HAYES: It was no secret that we have to rely on these freshman to
contribute right away and it makes a huge impact. They have done a tremendous
job. You can see game after game how much they matured and how much better
they are getting. I believe they are playing as sophomores. They are starting
to realize the game. They know the tricks of the trade of being a college
player now. I think they are doing a good job.



Q. Chuck, can you talk about your relationship with Coach Izzo and your
impressions of him?



CHUCK HAYES: I was fortunate to play for Coach Izzo two summers ago. First
impression was he is kind of short. He reminds me a lot of the coach we have
here as far as their competitive nature to win the game. I mean, he wants the
best out of his players. He is willing to push them to the limit.



Q. Rajon, from what I understand you have some experience playing against Drew
Knight. Can you talk about what you know about him and what that experience
was?



RAJON RONDO: We played ABCD championship in high school. That is not easy. He
is a massive point guard. He can knock down an open shot. He can create
offense for his teammates.



Q. Wisdom says that it is veteran guards that win these games?



RAJON RONDO: I try not to think about it all. If I have any questions I can go
to Chuck or Pat. They have great leadership. I figure like Mike Bibby led this
team to the championships, there is no reason why I can't.



Q. Chuck, can you talk a little bit specifically about the pangs that both
Mississippi State and Kentucky took to reach this point, specifically looking
at the last games where both teams use their depth to overcome a team that had
a great player?



CHUCK HAYES: Like I say, you can say that both teams really did use everybody
on their team to contribute for the win. If you look at it, either team has
that one true superstar or everybody's all-American. They have to fight their
way to get here, just like we did. The likes of Old Dominion and Vermont about
the great win they had last night against Duke. The teams are the same. The
coaching style is the same. Even the direction and the path that we took here
grinding out to advance to the next level. You can say we are pretty much
similar.



Q. Randolph, the three of you guys last night did a nice job on Bogut. Could
you talk about how your interior play may figure in to tomorrow's game as
well?



RANDOLPH MORRIS: Coming to the game yesterday, we looked to wear him down
through the game. Make him fatigue. I think we will have similar play
tomorrow. Paul Davis is a great player. He is very physical. I think we're
going to have to wear him down. It will be a team effort to wear him down.



Q. Chuck, how much does it come into play having played them as recently as
last year? Can you feed off that? It has got to help a little bit to have
knowledge of their players?



CHUCK HAYES: Yes, it does. They have everybody back. They are playing
together. Like I said, the three seniors they have and the juniors, they are
peaking at the right moment just like we are. We are familiar with them a
little bit. The game we had against them last year was in front of a record-
breaking crowd. Like I said, it is going to come down to execution. At the
last three to five minutes it will be up to the players to see who wants it
more.



Q. What do you remember about last year's game against Michigan State?



KELENNA AZUBUIKE: I remember I was out for a lot of that game. I was kind of
in foul trouble. They really like to run the floor get out on the break. They
try to wear you out with their athletic ability and their ability to run. They
still like to do that now. They just have great athletes and like to use that
to their advantage. We saw that on the film this morning. I imagine we'll try
to do the same thing tomorrow.



Q. Maybe you can address what Chuck said. Do you feel like a sophomore now?
What is the most difficult part about being a freshman in the NCAA?



RANDOLPH MORRIS: Very much faster than the high school game. Just basically a
learning processes through the whole freshman year.



Q. Patrick, Michigan State's defense last night did a pretty solid job on
chasing Redick through screens. Do you anticipate them being physical?



PATRICK SPARKS: I think they did a good job of playing Redick. Might have got
him frustrated. I've got to take my time, have patience, let the game come to
me, not force nothing.



Q. Chuck, UK is defined like a lot of programs. How much do you feel like your
legacy is going to be defined by whether or not this team gets to the Final
Four?



CHUCK HAYES: First of all, I have had a great career here. I have been on some
great teams. I have been at this stage before where we are one step away from
the Final Four. That is our goal as a team. That is something we have been
chasing since October. If it doesn't get there and it's not meant for it to
happen, I can say I had a great career. Tomorrow night you can see the hunger
in the team in wanting to go to St. Louis.



Q. Can you comment on Chuck's play in the tournament? It seems like in all
three games you can pinpoint where he took over?



RANDOLPH MORRIS: He has been doing that the whole year. I am not surprised at
all. Always a point from the game where we need a lift. That is what Chuck
does for our team.



Q. Patrick, with each game that goes by, do you guys feel more and more
pressure to do this for Chuck since he is a senior that is leaving?



PATRICK SPARKS: We have two senior in Josh Carrier and Chuck Hayes. They both
had great careers in Kentucky. There is no reason they shouldn't be able to
play in the Final Four. We have got their backs in that aspect.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Last call for questions on the student athletes.

_ 

Q. Tubby, I am wondering how important do you think the pace of the game will
be tomorrow?



COACH SMITH: As Chuck and a couple of them mentioned, they are two different
teams. Last year we were a more experienced team. This year Michigan State is
the more experienced team. They really are pushing the ball, I think, better
than they have at any point in time that I've seen them play. They have been
very good at it in the past as far as their transition basketball game. They
keep an awful lot of pressure on you in that regard. I don't know. It will be
-- again, two different -- we have similar styles. We want to push the ball
and get a good pace and good tempo and anytime you play, you want to control
the tempo. We believe you control it most by the defense. That is why I
mentioned earlier, and Check said also, we are similar in a lot of ways as far
as sound half court defensive teams. They are the better rebounding team. That
is going to be a big, big, key for us. Can we keep them off the boards.



Q. Coach, I am wondering if you could talk about your philosophy on sharing
the ball. Sort of what are the values or virtues in spreading the minutes
around. And the challenges if they have come up in getting across to your
players why they won't be having superstar minutes?



COACH SMITH: For instance, yesterday's game we had people in foul trouble. We
had three of our starters in foul trouble. A lot of times the game will
dictate the substitution pattern. But I also believe that we are recruiting
young men to come to the University of Kentucky to get an education and play
basketball. Every opportunity we talk about, there is a lot of opportunity to
contribute. You may not be a starter, you may not be playing a lot of minutes,
whether that opportunity presents it -- we might need your energy, we need
your free throws, a lot of opportunities -- when a young man gets a
scholarship at the University of Kentucky, I think he is capable of playing
anywhere in the country. I think most Division 1 programs -- I am sure Tom
Izzo feels the same way. We try to reward them. It is hard because guys come
expecting to play a lot of minutes. Our program is a very intense. Our
practices are intense. I think this is why you see the growth and development
of people like Shagari and Lukasz and Rajon and even our freshman Randolph,
because they know the competition is pretty competitive and pretty stiff in
practice day in and day out.



Q. Would you talk in general about how important basketball is for the state
of Kentucky and how that makes your job pleasurable or difficult?



COACH SMITH: In Kentucky basketball is a way of life, it really is. It's a --
there is not much to compare to the following and the love affair that fans
have. That is because of the success that we have been able to sustain for
such a long period of time. Longevity -- when you see the word success, you
see a team that has not just survived and prospered over the years through
some great coaches and some great teams. That alone enforces and demands that
we have people, coaching staff, assistant coaches, players, that understand
and appreciate what the great tradition at Kentucky means. The level of
commitment they have to have and the sacrifices they have to make in order to
be a part of this great program.



Q. You alluded to it a minute ago that Michigan State is more experienced than
you guys. Can you talk about what that means at this stage of the year and
also what your freshman have missed at this point?



COACH SMITH: Experience is a great asset because guys cannot just physically
make plays but they can -- they understand having been around in this
environment, they understand how to prepare. I think one of the lessons that
our freshman have to learn is to look at yesterday. We had a little scrimmage
there as far as our preparation and we didn't get off -- even though we got
off to a shaky start and probably some nerves -- What was the other part of
your question?



Q. How far they have come?



COACH SMITH: Freshman? They have really surpassed any expectations and each
one of them -- Joe Crawford I think has -- I thought we had some solid
experienced players returning and played lots of minutes last year from Josh
Carrier to Ravi Moss and obviously Kelenna, Chuck played a lot. When you bring
in a Randolph Morris, you can see the talent that he has, and Rajon Rondo, and
Ramel Bradley was the first recruit we signed last year. They come with a lot
of -- they make it fun. Their inexperience makes them -- they are very anxious
and eager to learn because they have a lot to learn. The teaching lesson is a
lot easier to communicate with them. They have a larger margin for
improvement. When you are coachable like they are and all of them have come
from solid backgrounds, it is a big help. Makes it fun to come to practice.



Q. (Inaudible.)



COACH SMITH: It depends on your team. And how you prepare your team. I
mentioned earlier that guys have played a lot of minutes last year. That is
the key, accepting their role now as a person that -- I am more concerned
about how we finished the game than I am about who started the game. That is
one of my things when I talk to players and recruit players. All we promise
them is an opportunity to get an education and play for the winningest college
basketball program in America. If they want that and they have the ability to
play and be a part of the Wildcat family, then we welcome them with open arms.
That is what we try to do.



Q. Yesterday up here Kelenna was teasing Chuck that you have adopted him like
a son over his four years here. What has he meant to this program over the
past four years he has been here?



COACH SMITH: You know, when you talk about relationships, that is what it is
about. Whether you are a coach or teammate of Chuck, he is a giver. He is a
giver of his time, giver of his feelings, his concern, he is a young man that
is open and accessible to all my players. He is not a real -- he leads by
example, which is the best way to lead. I promise, none of these guys have
ever seen Chuck Hayes miss a practice, dodge a drill, I mean, he is not going
to be at the back of the line. He will be at the front of the line when he
starts practice in the offseason conditioning program, in the wight room --
when you combine that with his ambassadorship as far as promoting college
basketball, student athlete, those are the things that would endear any coach.
So that is why I have really respected him and appreciate what he means to not
just Kentucky basketball but what he means to college basketball. We need more
people like him that are willing to sacrifice. He has sacrificed his game, his
position sometimes. He probably should be a small guard. He can do a lot of
things that are -- he has done what we have asked him to do. Again, he is just
giving of himself.



Q. Does he epitomize your team, Tubby?



COACH SMITH: He does. He is a tough -- not just tough physically but tough
minded. That is what we want our players to be.



Q. Just wanted to ask you a little bit about what Chuck alluded to, the
similarities of these teams. Is that a coincidence to you?



COACH SMITH: Well, basketball has evolved with the shot clock, pressure
defenses, the changes that you see on a regular basis. The mobility and the
agility and speed of the game, demands that you have a deep bench. So, I know
Coach Izzo goes out and recruits players to fit his style of play. He demands
that his players play both ends of the court. They push the ball. They run
every possession on turnovers and misses. They are going to be spreading the
courts. On the defensive end, he is going to demand that they defend. So,
teams that have that talent are going to prosper at this stage of the game. It
can overcome a lot of things, injuries, fatigue, you can keep people fresh.



Q. Did you see something in Sparks the second time around that you didn't see
when he was in high school? Was he better than you thought originally?



COACH SMITH: We didn't have a scholarship the first time. We were hoping we
could get it as the walk-on. Obviously the coach left Western Kentucky and it
was an opportunity for him to, as he said, live out his dream. We're thankful
that he decided to come to Kentucky. It has made us a better team. Being a
native of Kentucky, I know that is what he dreamed of. Unfortunately we only
have 13 scholarships. A program like ours, I think we want to share. We want
to share the great things that we have at the University with as many of the
athletes as we can. We have quite a few in the Kentucky scholarships that want
to be a part of our program. These are kids that can play at other places.
Patrick has done a tremendous job for us this year. He plays with a lot of
passion; very heady player; very knowledgeable player. He gets -- sometimes he
wants to do more than he is -- but we would rather have it that way than him
doing less.



Q. (Inaudible?)



COACH SMITH: Everybody is gearing up every year. It is a whole new lesson.
That is the beauty of college basketball. You have seniors that have
contributed a lot last year. We had five seniors in our program last year. It
is a challenge that you have every year to make sure that the players that
remain are those that are benefitting from having the experience. And we all
talk about longevity and you mentioned consistency and continuity. That is why
we have a team like Michigan State and any of the other teams that are
remaining at this level. Whether you are seed 1 through 6, you can count that
they can compete with anybody. Even deeper than that, now with the parity and
reduction in scholarships, kids with the opportunity to play in programs where
you will be on TV on a regular basis. Every conference just about has that
opportunity. There are just a lot of talented basketball players outside
there. You are seeing the depth in programs out of the top 25 or 50 programs
being able to compete at this time of year.



Q. You talked earlier about the responsibility coaches and players show at
Kentucky in maintaining the tradition. Did that process turn into being more
difficult? Have there been moments and times where you felt that personally?



COACH SMITH: I don't know. You know, we have accomplished something so
quickly. You don't win too much too soon sometimes. We feel like in one way
that also puts a bigger burden on you to repeat. Again, I know how -- you have
got to have some great athletes. Things have got to fall in place for you. We
are going to be competing for the regional tomorrow. Personally, there have
been moments I am sure that we didn't reach the goal at the end of the season.
Certainly we haven't done that in a number of years now. As Chuck said,
whether we win tomorrow or not, we feel like we have accomplished a lot this
year and we have had a successful year. That is all you can do. You look at
yourself in the mirror and say, did I do all I was capable of doing? Did we
treat people right? Did we do things the right way? I have been very satisfied
with my eight years that we have done things the right way. We just came up a
little short.



Q. Coach, when Michigan State beat Kentucky in the regional finals back in
'99, it was a landmark win for their program and for coaches. Do you have
specific memories of that game that you would be willing to share?



COACH SMITH: They had what you call the Smurfs or the Flintstones. They are
talented. Peterson, those guys went on to have professional careers and are
still playing basketball at the higher level. At that time we had a pretty
talented team too. The ebb and flow and whoever could get in control at the
end of the game, it was a hard fought game. I remember them knocking down some
people -- you have to have other people step up. In that game they had a big
kid that stepped up and knocked down some threes. It was Granger. He had an
excellent game against us and created a lot of problems for us. You know, we
have competed every year. I guess we probably played four or five times since
then. Talking about consistency and continuity that Coach Izzo has had at
Michigan State, that is why he continues to have great teams that compete for
championships year in and year out.



Q. In Your three games to the NCAA tournament you are shooting over 50 percent
offensively. What are you doing different through the conference tournament?



COACH SMITH: We're making shots. We probably narrowed our play selection. I
think that has been a big key. Now guys -- we are comfortable and confident
about what will work for us. I think our rebounding has improved some in the
tournament. That has helped. We have been able to get second and third shots.
The bench play has obviously been critical for us. I think that has been the
big difference.



Q. With two teams as deep as ya'll are, is it going to be important to pay
attention to what is going on on the court to select the right people for the
floor?



COACH SMITH: You are always looking to counter and to create mismatches and
force your opponent to make adjustments to the things you are doing and trying
to keep the tempo where we want it. Again, the challenge for us against
Michigan State will be when they bring in a Chris Hill -- they probably get a
guy who is an excellent player. So they probably improved some -- so that
versus sometimes we come in with lesser experienced players. They don't do
everything exactly right. It is hard for us to really cover up those mistakes
versus when we have veteran players out there. They can cover up those
mistakes a lot more quickly. In watching the game yesterday I wouldn't say
that was the case. We'll see how it goes. I am getting worn down now. How many
more questions do we have?



Q. When was the last time you started a freshman point guard? Also, have you
had to adjust in terms of having a freshman at point guard, the expectations
and the way you handle that kind of situation?



COACH SMITH: I don't know that we have ever started a freshman point guard. We
inherited pretty good guards in Cliff Hawkins. We improvised with Gerald Fitch
in Tulsa and Georgia. Patience is a virtue when you have young players. I have
become a lot more patient. It helped that Rajon is a very mature player in his
ability to understand the game. And I mentioned earlier to combine that with
his athleticism , and if he continues to improve his shooting he will be
awesome. He is fast and quick with the ball as anyone that I have had an
opportunity to coach. His decision making has been good. Especially at the
level we have competed at this year.



Q. Coach Izzo spoke the other day about the respect he has for you and Coach
K. Can you talk about the respect you have for Coach Izzo and where he has
taken the program in the last ten years?



COACH SMITH: In the modern day anytime when you are competing in the level of
notoriety or media coverage to keep things and do things the right way. His
team has always played hard and they play fair. Tom and I have grown to know
each other personally on and off the court and other venues, travelling with
the NABC on the board there. Most coaches have -- all of us have the welfare
of our student athletes in hand. You can see a guy like Mike Krzyzewski and
all the coaches competing at this level, they have to do it the right way with
the scrutiny that coaches are under. With coaching comes that added pressure
to do it again. For him to keep it at the level this high is going to be --
the expectations change. He has been able to adjust with the expectations as
well as anyone.



Q. 20 to 30 years ago, compared to now, when you look at the Michigan State
team you are facing tomorrow, you are seeing a team that is deep seven, eight,
nine players. Did you find yourself game planning against teams who are more
superstars, where you actually guard one or two people more for example, Bill
Walton? 21 and 22 instead of a team like this where they are equal?



COACH SMITH: A lot of things have changed. The rules. The three point
shooting, the shot clock. In that era you could keep the ball in somebody's
hands. You could do it with one or two guys. You could get your point guard --
you can get Butch Lee with Marquette, and he could dominate the ball. It is
hard to do that now with the rules the way they are. I think it has been good
for basketball. I would like them to do something else. I would like to do
away with the five-second rule and drop the shot clock down from 30 seconds.
Do things like put in the arc like the NBA so the block charge is a better
call. What I am saying is I think the game has evolved from 20 or 30 years
ago. It dictates that you have to prepare different. You have to recruit
different. Not that there -- there were just as many great athletes and
players back then. I think that is why you have seen the fewer post players,
true centers than you did years ago because of just the style that people and
teams have had to employ in this day and time.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Thank you, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

`  | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 26, 2005

  

### [Maurice Ager](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16336)

### [Alan Anderson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14531)

### [Shannon Brown](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16340)

### [Paul Davis](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15025)

### [Chris Hill](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16334)

### [Tom Izzo](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13984)

### [Kelvin Torbert](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16337)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: We're joined by Michigan State student athletes Chris Hill,
Kelvin Torbert, Paul Davis, Alan Anderson and Maurice Ager, and head coach Tom
Izzo. We'll begin now with a brief opening statement from the Coach.

_

COACH IZZO: As you can imagine, we're thrilled to be in this position. It is a
great time to be tired and having to still work. I think these players had a
very good practice, a little more life than I thought there could be. I think
we are ready to play. We are looking forward to it. We have played Kentucky
the last couple of years. We have seen them a lot on tape and TV. I think it
will be two similar type teams with the athletic ability that both have and
also with the depth that both have and it should be an entertaining game.



Q. Paul, I am sure you are aware of the job the three guys did inside last
night on Bogut. Could you talk about what you expect from them tomorrow night
and how key inside play may be to the picture?



PAUL DAVIS: I think it will be key on both ends of the court. They have got a
lot of guys just like we do. When we're in there, we will have to take
advantage of our depth too. And just keep pounding the ball in and trying to
get fouled, and just keep our game plan from last night. It worked very well.
On the defensive end, we have to control them and try to contain their bigs.



Q. Interested in the concept of buying into the idea of diminished minutes and
the superstar mentality might be that you want to play 35 minutes per game.
What does it take to accept the role that you are not going to get out there
that much?



ALAN ANDERSON: Every minute you are out there you have to spill it. You have
to spill it. Whatever it takes, diving on the ground, getting close balls. You
know, you will come out of the game and come back in. Just know that you have
a fresh guy coming in for you that can give the team a boost.

CHRIS HILL: Still buying into the whole team concept and knowing that we can
keep throwing in more bodies and with the pace that we want to play. We like
to keep it in for the minutes in the betweens for a lot of guys. That way they
can continue to play the fast pace.



Q. Wondering what any of you guys remember about last year's game with
Kentucky and how important you think pace will be and whether you think you
can outrun Kentucky?



ALAN ANDERSON: It will be real important. Hayes is a veteran guy like
ourselves. He does a lot of things on the court. He knocks down open shots. He
has nice post moves down low. No doubt he is a leader on their team. Last
year's game was exciting. It was up tempo. I think we are -- we have more
bodies than last year also. Looking forward to tomorrow.



Q. Paul, how many times in the past have you thought you got -- why hasn't it
gotten together lately for us?



PAUL DAVIS: I think after the week before the Iowa game from the Big-10
tournament it just kind of clicked. It was our spring break the week before. I
really don't know what it was. I have been trying to hold onto it. I have been
playing more aggressive. It is now or never, really. We have one game we don't
do so well, that is it. I am just trying to take advantage, I guess you could
say, of the minutes we have left.



Q. Kelvin, Coach touched on this last night. The coach feels that the
underclassmen feel like they stepped up a little bit to help the seniors.



KELVIN TORBERT: I think we definitely felt that. We talked about it after the
Iowa losses. We never know which game can be our last 40 minutes. I think the
underclassmen took it as a challenge to themselves to try to make this the
best trip for our seniors. We have got to give those guys as much credit for
trying to back us.



Q. Tom, can you talk about the decision to use the sledgehammer with those
videotapes and the impact of that?



ALAN ANDERSON: The impact, it was right next to me. Like I said, it was a
tough game coming off of Iowa when you see that, us finishing up in tapes. We
knew we couldn't watch them no more. We had to move on. It was a whole new
season, a six-game season. We did a pretty good job as playing it as that.



Q. Chris, just wanted to ask you a little bit about the paths these two teams
have taken. It seems to be similar paths in using your depth. Them having to
neutralize Bogut and you using the back court to neutralize Redick?



CHRIS HILL: Like you said, with Redick and Ewing, we had to use all the bodies
on the perimeter. They had to rotate the big guy in to slow down Bogut. A lot
of credit goes to both coaching staffs for having a great coaching plan. You
can't just use one guy. Both were successful. I think it will be a similar
type strategy as far as using all the bodies and just continuing to play hard.



Q. How do you think how Michigan State plays reflects Coach Izzo's personality
and approach?



MAURICE AGER: I think right now we really just made it just a fact to play
hard in the game. We really want to get back to those games where we were
winning championships. We want to be able to do those things. Really start our
own Lexington too.



Q. Alan, do you feel any more important for being one of the few seniors that
gets a lot of minutes? Also, does Kentucky remind you of any of you?



ALAN ANDERSON: As far as their team? Yeah, they through a lot of bodies at
you. They like to play defense and they are physical. They like to crash the
boards and run. They do a lot of things. They are similar to us, but they are
not. It is hard to -- I don't know. We have a true point guard in Drew
Neitzel. He has had a lot of confidence. Couple of seniors coming off the
bench with KT and Chris taking that role. They are doing a great job of that.
We played pretty good not really deciding who is going to start or what.



Q. This is for Kelvin and Coach. Could you talk about the connection between
Flint and Michigan State?



KELVIN TORBERT: I guess now is like Michigan State is like our backyard
basically. A lot of guys see that and see the success that past guys have.
Everybody wants to go to Michigan State in Flint. That is a big thing and
hopefully a pipeline that keeps rolling after this.



Q. Paul, from the underclassmen state of view, I know it is important for the
entire team to keep this going, your thoughts on trying to do this for the
seniors as well?



PAUL DAVIS: We have kind of taken to heart that these -- our five seniors have
been through a lot of things. They have been places where not a lot of people
have gone. They have been successful in those places. We want to send them off
right as best we can. That is what they are doing for. We are going to be
fighting out there for them and they will be rolling along with us.



Q. (Inaudible?)



PAUL DAVIS: It doesn't necessarily surprise me. That is the kind of team we
have. That is the kind of leaders we have on our team. You go around the
country, you can't count on your hand too many teams and seniors and really
all-star status players that will do that.



Q. Talk about the energy, the surprise energy at practice today. I just
watched the game and slept till noon. Are you on adrenaline? Are you jumping
out of bed? Or what is the deal?



CHRIS HILL: We are just excited to still have an opportunity to go out and
play tomorrow against a great Kentucky team and have a chance to go to the
Final Four. That is what we dream of. That is what we are working all year
for. If you don't have energy now and aren't excited to play, something is
wrong.

KELVIN TORBERT: I think we just are really excited to be playing. I think guys
are excited to stay in and keep playing. I mean, being around each other I
think there are guys on this team that don't want to give it up. I think it is
guys that just want to be around each other and stay with each other as long
as we can.



Q. Along those lines, just looking at you guys up there and watching you play,
as the tournament has progressed have you guys gotten more relaxed?



MAURICE AGER: At this time of year you can't relax. As you say, upsets happen
every day. There is no time to relax. We are more comfortable as a team. Right
now we are gelling at the right time.



Q. The other day when you talked about Duke, I think you phrased it "revenge
tour," to get revenge on the teams that have beaten you , obviously the
Kentucky game last year. Does it now include Wisconsin and Illinois?



ALAN ANDERSON: You can't look over a Kentucky team. You know, if that happens,
we can't wait for it. Right now we have got to focus on Kentucky and move on
from there.



Q. Kentucky has been shooting the ball really well in the tournament so far.
How big of a concern is that? Can you pinpoint on where their shots are coming
from?



ALAN ANDERSON: That is a big concern. They are playing 13 players. That means
everyone is shooting the ball pretty good. Like I said, we have to do what we
did yesterday but mostly everybody on the perimeter. Just try to make every
shot tough and make the passes contested. Like I said, we both have depth. We
will have to grind it out.



Q. I watched a lot of Big-10 basketball this year. You realize you were as
athletic as you were last year. Who has the best vertical on the team?



KELVIN TORBERT: It is between Chris Hill and Drew Knight.

PAUL DAVIS: As far as big guys or guards because you are looking at him right
here I think it showed last night. I think when Mo jumped over the guy, I
think that takes the cake right there.



Q. For any player, with three Big-10 teams advancing now, what does that say
about the conference? Is it maybe a validation of the strength of the
conference?



CHRIS HILL: I think so. It kind of speaks for itself when you have got three
teams for any conference still in it with 8 teams left. People have been
pretty much down on the Big-10 for a lot of the year. When we had the ACC
Big-10 challenge, the ACC definitely had the upper hand. We are still
standing. I think that does show that it is a good conference and still a very
powerful conference. We are all trying to advance.



Q. Kelvin, you guys just seem so relaxed right now. Not getting the win, but
the win against Duke, is that part of the reason that we're seeing this? Maybe
it has loosened you up a little bit to know that you have accomplished
something no other Spartan group has done?



KELVIN TORBERT: I wouldn't say it is so much relaxed as I think it is we are
still enjoying taking in the moment a little bit. We still know this is the
last chance in doing this and also getting ready to prepare to play a big
game. We still want to go out there and continue to play ball.

_

ROB CAROLLA: We'll dismiss the student athletes to the breakout rooms and
continue with head coach Tom Izzo.

_ 

Q. Can you just talk about the sledgehammer idea and how that fit into this
trust you have started to develop between yourself and the players?



COACH IZZO: I just felt like I had to come up with something after the Iowa
game. I really -- I said this before, I didn't have confidence in the way some
of our guys were playing. I had confidence in how I thought they could play.
Somehow we had to differentiate. The truth was, I was trying to miss the tape
and hit Alan, but I didn't. I hit the tape. It was just -- I think every coach
goes through some things they try to do at the end of the year. I think it was
important for what these guys have been through. They have still done a lot
more than what I give them credit for. I will be the first to tell you I am
still bugging them. Somewhere in the middle is the happy medium that is the
result. I am not sure in this job you are supposed to deal with reality. That
is the only reason for it. We will put everything behind us and see what we
could do. I did have the faith in this team that they are capable of being a
very, very, good team.



Q. This drive that you took with Paul Davis to get him motivated sounds like
something out of The Godfather. What did you talk about? It didn't take I
guess at the time?



COACH IZZO: I removed the horsehead from my bed and then I just mentioned the
back of a truck and went for a ride. You know, I think there are lot of things
coaches do. I do spend a lot of time with my players. I think that is why you
can wear your emotions on your sleeve because they know what you are and what
you are. It is not just what happens during a practice. I think it is what
happens 24 hours a day. I think for the last couple of years I felt like I
spent 24 hours a day with Paul. He is a very talented kid who wants to be
better. A lot of people want to be, just don't know how to be. I guess that is
our job. I will be the first to tell you that it gets frustrating. I think
there are some people outside that effect them. Those are probably the most
fun times of the job when you get to sit down with somebody and get out of
your office or their dorm room or apartment and try to do something off the
wall. Up in Michigan it is too cold to go for a walk so we turned the heater
on and went for a drive.



Q. Tom, they say that teams that press don't like to be pressed. The teams
seem very similar in style and approach. How do you see that impacting what
happens tomorrow?



COACH IZZO: I think the difference in us and them is we are not pressing and
taking a lot of chances. We are pressuring. There were questions asked about
guys giving up minutes in a game or whatever. Guys don't come out kind of
thinking they should be in there. If you are running out to make buckets like
we do, there are lots of times people say, why did you take them out? I say,
because he asked to come out. Like you said, sometimes the pressure, if you
are pressuring somebody that doesn't like to be pressured -- we don't get
pressure a lot in our league. We did a little bit last night. I am sure we
will a lot tomorrow. I think we are ready for that. We have a lot of guards
and fatigue shouldn't be a problem. You never know until you throw the ball
up. I am looking forward to it.



Q. It seems like especially from this region there are some examples of guys
that have stayed four years and become stars. In today's college basketball,
are those guys more valuable to programs than the guys that are a one and
done? Is there a switch where you need guys that will come in and switch
roles?



COACH IZZO: I can use Shavlik Randolph tomorrow, it wouldn't bother me at all.
People ask me that a lot. Would you rather recruit guys that will be there
forever? The answer is no. Kids are staying a lot longer now because they are
seeing what is happening and getting a better feel for things. I look over the
years at Kentucky Bogan and Prince. He is a awesome kid and competitor. I look
at some of my guys where people talk about coming out. I think for the most
part a lot of guys are staying and that is the reason a lot of teams are
advancing. If you look at us and Kentucky, if you look at Duke, if you look at
Illinois, you know, we're all filled with juniors and seniors. When Duke won
it, they did. When UConn won it, they did. Syracuse is part of the exception
to the rule. I don't know if I recruit that way. What I try to do is recruit
and get the best players we can and convince them on why it would benefit them
to stay. I don't try to talk kids into staying. It is a delicate line to walk,
to be honest with you. And one that, you know, we could get to a Final Four
now than we would have done it on different ways. There is a lot of ways to
skin a cat, as they say.



Q. Tom, does your philosophy mirror that of Flint Michigan and describe a
typical Flint player?



COACH IZZO: Cleaves going out last night when he was in the Seattle
Supersonics wearing a Spartan shirt on the bench as a typical Michigan State
guy. Somebody who is hopefully blue collar. That is what that city is along
with Detroit. I think there is a toughness that I have enjoyed about the kids
that I have had from there. I think they wear their emotions on their sleeves.
That is why the mayor gave me an honorary Flintstone diploma. Even though
Flint and Iron Mountain are far apart, I think we are both blue collar in a
way. I think KT is an example of an incredible kid who has had a lot of
pressure on him. As you can tell, he thinks more about the team, more about
the coaches, more about everybody else than he does himself.



Q. Tom, when you guys beat Kentucky in '99 in the regional final it was a
breakthrough for you and the program. This game tomorrow, maybe it will be
just as big for this group? Can you talk about the strange symmetry of playing
them again?



COACH IZZO: It could be. I think it is us trying to get back to where we are.
And like I said a couple of days ago, when you come into a tournament like
this and you are going to play Duke, arguably the best program in modern era,
and Kentucky, top two or three program. There is a lot to play for in that.
When you look back on that '99 game, I just remember being down 21 to 4 and
making sure that the guys hung in tight in my huddle more than anything else.
We came back and won it. It was a big win for us. Tomorrow it will be a big
win for the players. Tomorrow I think on a more important note it would be big
for our fans and big for our program. This is one that would be bigger for
these players. If there was a reason for hoping that we can advance, it would
be for them and what they have been through.



Q. We're talking to Shannon about the time you went to see him play in Texas
when you were recruiting him. What do you remember from that?



COACH IZZO: You know, after I got to know his family a little bit in the
recruiting processes and just his desire to be a player, everybody talks the
talk about being a great player and some guys walk it. I got a chance to get
to Chicago and see Shannon work out at his high school in the summer and got
to know his parents a little bit and see how grounded they were and how just
determined they were to help him be successful and what kind of opportunity he
has. Shannon Brown is one of those guys that on all sides of him there is good
things that happen. I came down to Texarkana here and saw him in the last day
of the recruiting period. He was down here visiting his grandparents. I flew
down and watched him play and flew back. It was a long day but it was every
bit worth it at the time.



Q. (Inaudible.)



COACH IZZO: I said then Larry Brown was my hero and all those players because
of how they played and where they put their defense in rebounding and
different guys assumed different roles. You know, I like this way because I
think the locker rooms are always better. Even though if you think about it,
we played a lot of players, we did have a more true star system where we had
one or two players that everybody knew we were going to. It is easier on the
coaches. It is sometimes easier on the coach to have 7 or 8 players in
rotation. It is probably more fun in the hotels to be able to look at the
group of guys and know every one of them could contribute at any given time.
It is more fun that way. More sleepless nights because you don't know who it
is going to be. I have grown to enjoy this team as they become I think
mentally and physically tougher. I think we have taken some steps in that
direction, especially Paul Davis and Kelvin Torbert has been a big, big reason
for a resurgence of late.



Q. Chuck Hayes was talking with great respect about you and even joked about
your hype. What are your impressions of him?



COACH IZZO: I don't know but I am going to hate him for two hours. I do love
the kid. He is unbelievable. He should be a poster child or poster flier --
excuse me. For what the college athlete should be. I don't know what he is
like academically and socially. I do know a little bit on that I had him in
the Pan American games. He is born to believe. He is the Mateen Cleaves. He is
Kentucky's version. He cared about everybody on that trip. It was a guy I
could rely on. He has a personality. You know, I don't want to tell you too
many gushy things about him. I remember Tubby saying to me, you are going to
have trouble cutting this kid. After the first practice I told my assistants
there is one guy that is making the team and we'll go from there. He has
toughness, he has leadership skills. He wants to win. I think it is a perfect
example he is averaging ten points a game. That is not his only contribution
to this team. He has made so many other contributions. When I hear Tubby speak
about it, when he speaks highly about him, I feel like I am talking about the
right person.



Q. (Inaudible?)



COACH IZZO: Not the last two years. But, I think Tubby and I have -- you know,
as I grew into this job, you know, I started a little later than those two
guys, I said it publically, I idolized they way Mike ran his team. I have been
a big Tubby Smith fan. I think he coaches with emotions on his sleeve. His
glare scares me. I don't know what it does to his players. I think we play
similar. We have some guys that enjoy playing and I think are willing to do
whatever it takes to win. I think with the depth and the athleticism and the
different ways that both of us struggle at times to shoot the ball. Although
early on they shot it well and we shot it well at times. I don't know if we
have come similar paths, but I think we have a similar blueprint to success. I
think we feel it has to be done with tough guys who will compete. I think
defensive rebounds are something that is important to both. I know he cares
and I care what goes on on and off the court. I guess our blueprints are
similar.



Q. Tom, Chuck Hayes said that your team looks like a team that is peaking. It
has been a long time in coming for this group. How motivated were you that
they might leave without reaching their potential?



COACH IZZO: I thought it would. That is why I didn't keep those two nice
videotapes. I just didn't know when. I think if there is anything I asked them
and I asked my staff it is we owe them or I owe them. I told them that we
should give them whatever weeks it took the hardest work that I have put in
for this job just because I think I have been demanding of them and put them
through a lot and I felt I owed it to them. Like I said, we started growing
together. It took a little longer than with some groups. Sometimes you have to
have adversity to bring you closer. This group has had some but they are such
good guys off the court, they are good students. Never get in any trouble.
There is no reason that -- there hasn't been much adversity to stick up with
them and prove that I am with them. I think it took longer than normal I think
we have all grown together and I think maybe at the right time. With the
opportunity that is ahead of us tomorrow night, it would make for a story book
career for those four or five guys.



Q. For both you guys, I think this is your second Elite 8 in the last three-
years. Without one or two dominant programs, how important is it to have a
program consistent enough that you are there knocking on the door getting
yourself in a position where you will break through?



COACH IZZO: That is what I said has been important for us, knocking on the
door. You are not going to win them every year. That is my admiration for
Duke. How they can do that -- you know we're trying to knock on doors of Sweet
16 and Elite 8 doors. They are knocking on Final Four doors year after year.
That is -- I keep telling our media to stay tuned to ten years from now. In
the John Wooden era, you were compared to ten national championships and the
ten times he went there. Duke has done more of it. We don't have the tradition
of Duke and the tradition of Kentucky. That is what we're building. It has
been fun building it. Tomorrow would be another big block in that building
process.



Q. If the skeptics who talk about the Big-10 this season were wrong, what did
they miss about this conference?



COACH IZZO: Well, you know, I think what happens to us in the ACC Big-10
challenge is for some reason it has not worked out the greatest for us. Number
one, let me say this. I think the ACC and the Big East were very, very good
conferences this year. Maybe a step a above a lot of the other ones. Over the
last couple of years it seems like we were put down to nothing. I think part
of it is because we, the coaches, haven't done a good job. We lost some high
profile coaches a lot like the Big East did when they lost Lou Carnsiki
(phonetic), John Thompson. I think that is an aura to that. When I am the
oldest guy left standing here in the conference at ten years, it is not
usually great. I think they just miss that we got on the flow of our league
and we led the nation in attendance for 29 straight years. There is no easy
wins because of fans alone. Some of us like we did yesterday and somewhat this
week -- Mike Davis did at Indiana. We played a brutal non-conference schedule.
I don't think everybody does that. All of a sudden those teams aren't ranked.
Now, you beat Indiana, and you beat a team. You beat a Michigan State who is
not ranked. I think that has hurt us some. The Ohio State hurt us some. It is
a very good team that -- they were off the radar screen because of probation.
I think those are some of the reasons. As always, you need some flagship
programs. The ACC has had Duke forever and North Carolina, Georgia Tech, Wake
Forest, Maryland. Every year there is at least two or three. I said as much as
it bothers me we were part of the problem last year. We were the flagship
team. We went 0 and 6 against the teams we went against. This year we had one
in Illinois that was really up there but maybe the rest of us didn't do our
job enough. All I am saying is I don't want to beat a dead horse here. I have
to stick up for the conference. I felt when we had the two teams in the Final
Four for a couple of those years for some reason the Big-10 didn't get the
credibility that it deserved. Like I said, I take the blame for that. We need
to do a better job of letting people know it is a good conference.



Q. Kentucky has played 13 players in the first half of its last two tournament
games. Have you ever seen a team playing that big of a rotation this deep in
the tournament? The second part is somebody who plays that way, is that an
extra onus on a coach? To stay on top of match-ups when you are using that
many people?



COACH IZZO: Me and my assistants and my video guy have to write up a report on
every guy and that is taking more time. We thought we played a lot of guys,
Jud Heathcote teases me about how many guys I play. We barely have 13 guys on
our roster and he is playing that in the first half. That makes it difficult.
It is hard for him too. It is hard for me to play, nine, ten guys. As you say,
you know there are different guys to do different things. I guess that is
where the day and a half of preparation becomes important. How many can you
load without overloading into your players' brains and even in your own. That
is what makes it so much fun this time of year.



Q. This time of year it seems now in college basketball now more than ever the
coaches have become the focal point. How did college basketball become so
coach centric and do you think and is that a good or bad thing?



COACH IZZO: You know, it is interesting because when I -- one of the things
when I talk to somebody about an NBA job I looked at three years ago they said
the players are the ones that barely know who the coach is. I disagree. I
think they know because they fire them so fast they must know their names. I
don't know if it is good. I always said it as a players' game. I really do
believe that. A coach can make a difference. It is still in those years where
you are trying to mold humans. You try to help people grow to the point of
what they will be 10 or 15 years down the road. It is still the players that
play the game. There are no coaches that shoot free throws or get a rebound.
Maybe it should be Alan Anderson and the Michigan State Spartans against Chuck
Hayes and the Kentucky Wildcats. I know there are times this year I wish it
would have been.



Q. Coach, how will you remember Alan Anderson ten years from now?



COACH IZZO: Perseverance. He has played more positions than anybody since
Magic Johnsen at Michigan State. I can remember nights when he has been
through it all. Like I said, I know that is a cliche statement, but this kid
has -- like I told him a hundred times, it will help you in the end. They
passed Mo Ager on the break last night. Versatility is what is important for a
great player. It is good to be able to do one thing. If you have versatility I
think you have got more going for you. I will remember him as the versatile
player. He as grown up and grown each year he has been here. I look at
academically, socially and every year he has made strides. Hopefully he will
be culminating in the next couple of weeks.



Q. Joe Crawford is a guy that admired your program. Can you talk about what
you admire about him and what you first noticed about him maybe as a player?



COACH IZZO: Joe Crawford was a great player in high school. We recruited him
his freshman year. It was a situation that Jud always said there is no
freshman that are happy. They will never average the 30 points a game that
they did in high school. But he is a great kid. I think Tubby Smith is a great
coach for him, I think pushing him and getting him better in things and having
some patience. Jason Richardson for us, when he first came, I don't know what
he played 18, 19, 17 minutes a game but I felt he grew. I was always
interested to hear how he felt about things. Nobody is ever happy with their
minutes. You asked some great questions to these guys. I think sometimes you
can be too quick to maybe read the sessions. It takes time like everything
else. He is going to be a great player at the University of Kentucky. He is
definitely playing for right guy. I think he will enjoy him as the years go
on.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Coach, thank you.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 25, 2005

  

### [Daniel Ewing](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14303)

### [Mike Krzyzewski](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13672)

### [Shelden Williams](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15581)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: Were are joined now by Duke University. We'll start with an
opening statement from the coach and then questions for the student athletes.

_

COACH KRZYZEWSKI: I thought Michigan State's defense was terrific. Without any
traps they were able to pressure the balls and force 22 turnovers against us.
In the first half in particular the 12 turnovers were key to the ball game.
They just played really hard. They did such a good job. What they also did
with their ball pressure, they took away vision. There were times where we had
people who were open in the first half and we just didn't see him because of
that pressure on the ball. It was kind of like rushing the quarterback where
you don't see a receiver.

They did a great job. I thought our kids played with the heart they have
played with all year long. We are in a position to win. You know, with just
under three minutes when we cut it to three, and then Davis's three point play
there was a huge play. We tried to get a time out and could not get a time-
out. They scored and we couldn't keep pressure on. They got that three point
advantage. They were certainly deserving to win and we congratulate them.



Q. Shelden, can you talk about the last foul. Were you trying to stay out of
foul trouble?



SHELDEN WILLIAMS: Of course I was trying to avoid the last foul. I had four
fouls prior to that. When he got the ball I thought I felt like I kind of
jumped a little bit backwards where I wasn't initiating the contact.



Q. Daniel, can you talk about the pressure they played. It seemed like you had
a hard time running the offense in the first half?



DANIEL EWING: They applied good pressure. They picked up full court. They zig-
zagged us in the -- they had complications running off. We weren't poised.
That goes to myself and my teammates. They caused a lot of turnovers in the
first half also.



Q. Shelden, what was Davis doing so well that made him have such a good night
underneath there?



SHELDEN WILLIAMS: He was just putting his body in the position where he was
catching the ball, the post where we could turn around and do the jump shot.
He did a good job of taking the offensive glass and getting the offensive
rebounds and putting them back up.



Q. Daniel, Coach Izzo was talking about they had four different defenders
playing off of Redick. How difficult was it to find him?



DANIEL EWING: In the first half it was real difficult. They tried to speed us
up. When we finally did get a chance to run the offense, J.J. was running his
man really well. They had a second defender helping out. He didn't have a free
path.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Student athletes may go back to the locker room.

Questions for the Coach.

_

Q. You worked hard and earned everything you got this season. Just the way it
ended is obviously disappointing, but thinking back on this team, I know it
was fun for you?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: It was great. I told the kids after the game, I said it
would be a mistake for us to dwell on this game and the loss. This season has
been beautiful and sensational. We showed some heart tonight. Obviously we
were not -- we were playing against a team that was playing really well. We
put ourselves in a position to win in spite of a lot of different things. That
is what they did all year long. They won 27 out of 33. They finished third in
the AP in the country. They were ACC champs. That has been a tremendous
season. I love my team and -- you either want the season to end in jubilation
or crying. Then those emotions will show if you had had a great season. There
is a lot of crying in our locker room, not just because we lost but because it
is over. I am proud of that. Again I love my team. They are great. It is one
of -- it is a unique as season as I have had to coach because of a special
group of kids that includes my walk-ons and the infrastructure.



Q. Michigan State shot so poorly from the outside in the first half. Did you
give them too many open threes?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: You know, they are good. So, they have that match-up with
Anderson that if you have a big on them and you step in, you can leave them
open. You have got to let a guy through. We didn't handle that and that is how
he got his first three. You know, they just executed better. But he had three
threes. Those were huge for them. One of our things for the year, we have been
as good as three point defensive team as there has been in the country. A lot
of that is the match-up. He is a -- he played like a senior. Anderson is
terrific. I know Davis had a great game. But Anderson is the heart and soul of
their basketball team. His play there during the second half was instrumental
to their winning.



Q. Could you talk about the play where Shelden had the dunk and the basket was
taken away. Were you satisfied with the explanation?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: They are three great officials in the game. What they said,
the reason it came outside was because of basket interference. Shelden did
pull the thing down. I just asked him why do you think you did that. You know,
but you can't if you don't follow the play through -- what they called and
what they saw was the correct call. I have no problem with that. Those guys
are veteran officials who are top notch.



Q. When you called that last time-out and brought Daniel to the sidelines,
talk about the emotions you felt?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: Especially because he is in Texas and this is where he ended
his high school career, I thought it was a time where it should be Daniel's
moment. Michigan State at 14.8 seconds was going to have their moment. But
that kid, he leaves college basketball as the winningest player in college
basketball. He has 115 games and lost 23. 29 a year. He has been incredible.
He deserved to have his moment right there. Even though it wasn't going to be
a winning moment with the team.



Q. Was that as good as anyone guarded him all year?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: People have guarded him well. I thought he was open a number
of times. They guarded everybody. When you guard the guys who are making
passes, it is like a split second where you have to make the pass. We just
weren't able to make those split second decisions in the first half. That is a
credit not just to the individual defense but their collective defense. They
played a very, very, good defensive game.



Q. Did Daniel take a shot in the face at some point?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: He takes shots in the face every game. I am sure he did
tonight. Not intentionally, but there is lot of activity around all the time.
In saying that, if anything happened like that tonight it was not -- those
guys played a clean game. We have no problem. They won a great game they
should get that credit.



Q. Does he seem worn down to you?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: No, no. He is not fatigued. I believe he would rather play
on Sunday right now. Those three kids, J.J., Shelden and Daniel are in amazing
shape. We didn't lose because of fatigue.



Q. Whenever you could cut it down and get close, did that take a lot --
demeanor-wise, is that hard to keep --



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: Sure. That is a credit to them. They have had a lot of
successes in their basketball program. They are a veteran basketball team.
They basically have the same team back from last year. They make plays. I
thought it was a really good game because they have to make plays to trump
some of our plays.



Q. Coach K, could you talk about why you went so small at the end of the game.
Randolph was on the bench?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: It got us back in the game. You know, we have to switch
everything. It put us in a position to win the game. That was the correct
move. I mean, we didn't hit shots then. It wasn't like Davis hurt us then.
They were going to hold the ball. They were not going to be posting as much.
We wanted our most athletic team in there. That is why we did the thing with
Reggie and Lee. We wanted to get fouled so we could stop the clock, get rest,
we wanted to do a bunch of things.



Q. A lot of people think that as a No. 1 seed, if you don't make the Final
Four then the season isn't a success, what do you think about that?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: They are wrong, you know. I mean, but people are allowed to
think what they want to think. We have had a great, great year. The
achievement of a No. 1 seed is an amazing accomplishment. It was one of the
biggest I have had in coaching. For our group to finish up ACC champs and get
a No. 1 seed, believe me, it is a heck of a thing. One of the things you have
to be careful about is letting someone else define your successes and
failures. This has been a successful year.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Coach, thank you for joining us.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 25, 2005

  

### [Andrew Bogut](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14508)

### [Ray Giacoletti](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13818)

### [Marc Jackson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15035)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  

COACH GIACOLETTI: Congratulations to Kentucky. I thought they wore us down. I
am proud of our guys and the effort. I thought we played them as good as we
could tonight. We limited our turnovers. We got to the free throw line. We
wanted to try to get there ten times per half, we got there 28 times. We held
them to 63 points. That has been a staple to our success throughout the
season. Our guys gave a great effort. They can lay their heads down on the
pillow tonight and feel no regret.



Q. Andrew, I assume you haven't faced two seven footers many times this year.
How hard was that to get position down low? That's not even counting Randolph,
the six-ten guy?



ANDREW BOGUT: It was pretty tough. Obviously they banged me around. I said to
coach in the first half he was telling me you want to get looks. I just
didn't. I couldn't knock a shot down. I struggled to shoot all day. I just
couldn't knock them down. I don't think it was anything special they done, it
just wasn't my day shooting the basketball.



Q. Andrew, you seemed to get a little bit frustrated out there with the
physical play. How did you feel about the officiating?



ANDREW BOGUT: I had no problem with it. Kentucky played a great game. I had no
problem with anybody but myself.



Q. Andrew, are you ready to say that this is your last college game or not at
this point?



ANDREW BOGUT: I am going to go back and go to bed and wake up. I am going to
do that when I am totally ready. I am not going to announce anything without
talking to my family.



Q. How frustrating was it for you knowing this was your last game when you
fouled out at the end and knowing you couldn't help?



MARC JACKSON: This year we had a great season. You don't want it to end this
way. There is one winner in this tournament. We competed and did the things we
needed to. Coach was saying we hit two of our goals that we have been doing at
all of the games this year. You know, obviously I was devastated. It was one
of those things you look back and you see the things that we have accomplished
and it has been a great year.



Q. You had your worst free throw shooting of the year. Was it tiredness,
nervousness?



MARC JACKSON: I would say that it is a little fatigue. For the most part.

COACH GIACOLETTI: I will take the blame. Playing these guys too many minutes.

MARC JACKSON: I think we needed to focus a little bit more. It was just one of
those nights we didn't shoot very good.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Thank you, gentlemen. We'll continue next with Utah head coach
Ray Giacoletti.

_

Q. Ray, does Kentucky's depth, is it kind of like a catch 22? You either go
with your starters and ride them out as opposed to putting a guy in that you
wouldn't normally play?



COACH GIACOLETTI: We are going to play the guys that got us here. If I made a
bad decision with playing them too many minutes we are going to live with
that. They do have great depth. I have never seen a team that played 13 guys
in 26 games in one season. It is amazing that you can do that. It is a
decision we had to make and we went with it. They wore us down a little bit. I
think if we hit some free throws it would have been different, but we didn't.
Kentucky wore us down. They stepped up and made some plays and we didn't.



Q. I noticed you took your jacket off. You were pretty animated. How did you
think the game was called with officiating?



COACH GIACOLETTI: I was trying to fire them up. I have no problems with the
officiating. That is the way it is at this level.



Q. Playing 13 guys obviously wears a team down defensively. Offensively they
got scoring from ten different guys. How difficult is that?



COACH GIACOLETTI: You know, we played a lot tonight. I don't know if people
could recognize it we played bunch of box and one. In all the tapes that we
watched we wanted to try to stop Sparks. When he was able to stretch the
defense it made it one-on-one in the post. For the post players, I thought our
guys did a great job in stopping Sparks. We bailed them out on the block, we
got him to the bonus and the free throw line. For the most part, especially
early it did it's job with making them shoot perimeter jump shots.



Q. At some point when you saw your guys wearing down did you consider going
deeper in your bench than you had earlier in the season?



COACH GIACOLETTI: I considered it. I think our staff got a pretty good feel
for how our bench is. We were trying to play the game in ten four-minute
segments. Like I said, if we hit some free throws it is a little bit different
at the end. We have got to do it within three with Bogs shooting a free throw
to get it to two. I don't know what time that was. You know, but that changes
the game pressure on them. But again, I don't have any regrets. We did what we
thought got us here, what we thought was going to help us get us over the hump
with Kentucky.



Q. When they put Alleyne in the game, you seemed to alter Andrew's shots. Can
you talk about that?



COACH GIACOLETTI: He is long. We tried to do some things. Instead of taking
Andrew away from the post -- either with the ball screen, zipper cut, kind of
back bit from the back post. We tried to alter and hopefully keep Alleyne from
that.



Q. Do you feel like this was Andrew's last game?



COACH GIACOLETTI: Like Andrew said, he is going to sleep on it. His mom got in
last night. It is the first college game she has seen him play. We'll sit down
and talk about it once we get to Salt Lake.



Q. What would your advice be to him?



COACH GIACOLETTI: I would hug him and wish him the best of luck if he is going
to be a top three pick.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 25, 2005

  

### [Kelenna Azubuike](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16335)

### [Chuck Hayes](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14498)

### [Tubby Smith](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13960)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: We're joined by University of Kentucky head coach Tubby Smith,
student athletes Kelenna Azubuike and Chuck Hayes. We'll begin with some
opening comments from Coach.

_

COACH SMITH: It was a very hard fought game. I thought our guys stepped up,
especially our bench. We did a tremendous job. I thought our interior people
did a fairly good job against Andrew. You never hold a great player down and
he is a great player. We're happy to get the win.



Q. How important was your team defense in the victory?



CHUCK HAYES: It feels very good to win this game. We're taking it one game at
a time. We're going to enjoy this one for tonight and then tomorrow we're
going to get ready for a good Michigan State team. Our three seven footers did
everything they could do stop Bogut. We did a great job battling with them.
Unfortunately Randolph got in foul trouble. That shows signs of a great team
when you have got two guys coming off the bench and contributing the way they
did.



Q. How difficult was it for you guys when you had three starters in foul
trouble in the first half but the bench came in and did a good job?



CHUCK HAYES: It was frustrating sitting on the bench with two fouls. Lately I
have been getting in foul trouble a lot lately. That just shows signs of a
good team if you have good three starters in foul trouble and our bench is
swooping in and giving us a better effort. Like I said, tonight was definitely
a team win from everybody. Everybody contributed in some kind of way.



Q. You guys played thirteen guys and you have been doing it all season. Talk
about the effect that has on a team. Did it grind Utah out a little bit? Did
you wear them out?



KELENNA AZUBUIKE: I think we did. Everybody that came in a came contributed in
a positive way, especially our big men. I think it wore them down a little
bit. We had fresh guys in there. It worked for our advantage tonight and we
will use that next game also.



Q. Talk about the three point play you had where you spun around Andrew Bogut
and it put you up 11. How satisfying is that?



CHUCK HAYES: It felt good knowing that I was able to finish and get the foul.
Thankfully it was on their big man who had played the whole game. I think the
fatigue had a factor with him with the bodies we were throwing at them. That
three point play gave us momentum and sealed the game a little bit.



Q. Both teams seemed to struggle tonight from the free throw line. What do you
attribute that to?



KELENNA AZUBUIKE: I don't know. I think guys that Azubuike hit -- it was
ripping in and ripping out. Maybe it's the gym or whatever. I think it is a
good shooting gym. Hopefully we will shoot better next game. We will go and
practice those and try to get them to where we are hitting them.



Q. You guys shot 61 percent. What do you attribute that to?



CHUCK HAYES: Patience. They kind of caught us off guard with a box and one to
start off the game with Patrick. It took a lot of patience and high percentage
shot. They were overplaying and being aggressive on the ball. We didn't let
them get us out of our tempo. Like I said, execution, we knocked down some
shots.

_

ROB CAROLLA: You may go. Thank you very much. We'll continue next with
questions for Tubby Smith.

_ 

Q. How do you keep those two seven footers motivated and looking forward?
Tonight was good match-up for them?



COACH SMITH: You are right. We are going up against a great player in Andrew.
We needed them. I think they were fired up and looked forward to it. In our
league, in college basketball today, the big seven footers kind of have a
little bit of disadvantage, people are playing smaller, more agile post
people. All of our kids do something different. Randolph has started out every
game this year except one. He has tremendous strength and hands and can score
inside and he is still very young. He is foul prone like he was tonight. A
smart player like Andrew Bogut can do that to you. Out of necessity we had to
play Lukasz. He had played a lot of minutes last year. You have to keep them
hungry by letting them know when the opportunity presents -- in practice maybe
show their scrimmage against one another and staying sharp. Shagari has been
up and down this year not because of skill but other things. He has picked it
up over the last few weeks.



Q. Do you think of the teams that have reached the Elite 8 have overachieved
more given it's overall inexperience?



COACH SMITH: Not because of inexperience. I think our expectations are high.
Our goals are high each year. This team is no different than any other team
that we have had or will have at Kentucky. We have got great leadership. That
has been the key. You can overcome a lot of inconsistencies with the right
leadership. You have got unbelievable leadership in Chuck Hayes and Azubuike
that is comparable to the leadership in '98 with some of the veteran players
like Jeff Shepard, Cameron Mills -- I have been pleased. It makes it fun to go
practice.



Q. Just talk about the importance of being able to guard Bogut one-on-one
after he had several assists against Oklahoma and none tonight?



COACH SMITH: We made him have to work for shots. We had a lot of fouls to
give. We weren't trying to foul him. He is so good at drawing fouls inside. We
were -- where was I going with this? What was the question again ?



Q. He didn't have any assists tonight?



COACH SMITH: That was important. We were forcing him to catch the ball farther
away from the basket. We are a team that from day one in practice, we have
ball line principles as far as trapping the post when he's in a certain area.
That is automatic. I was disappointed that he split the double team. We didn't
get there quick enough. We weren't as aggressive as we should have been. We
worked hard to try to when we didn't do that and we had Shagari in the game we
didn't need to give him as much help.



Q. Early look at Michigan State, I mean, this was a team tonight to ground out
a win. Played extremely hard defensively.



COACH SMITH: Typical Tom Izzo team, Michigan State Spartans team. They are
symbolic of their mascot. They are going to be tough and physical. He has got
a deep bench, much like us. They play with a lot of confidence. I haven't
watched the game yet. When you beat Duke in this type of environment, you have
come a long ways. They are an outstanding team with outstanding athleticism.
They have an inside presence that can give us a lot of problems. Their speed
is what impresses you the most. It was a little bit different than Utah. They
didn't look to push the ball like they did. We will have our work cut out for
us in trying to stop their fastbreak.



Q. You were asked about having the two seven footers on the bench. I assume
you used all 13 of your scholarships. What is your philosophy about that?



COACH SMITH: About filling up the quota with?



Q. Using all 13 scholarships?



COACH SMITH: I feel like -- I grew up in a family of 17. When you have an
opportunity to help people out, I think we should have 15 or 20 of the
opportunities to have an education. We have a great program in Kentucky. We
like to share it with more people. Unfortunately some people -- but keeping
people years ago, they did. I know at Kentucky Adolph Rupp probably had 20 or
30 people on scholarship. I don't see why we wouldn't have more. They are
young people trying to become leaders in America. I am happy to be coaching at
the college level and having some influence and impact with these young
people, as long as they are happy and getting a quality education from a great
institution like Kentucky. I would like to see more, more scholarships.



Q. If you had to sum it up, what would you say that put you over the top
tonight?



COACH SMITH: Something we haven't done well lately, and that was rebound the
ball. I thought that was the -- because they are such a good rebounding team.
We did better than we had been doing in the past. I thought that was -- and
shooting the ball. Any time you can shoot over 50 percent that is very
critical. It can cover up a lot of mistakes.



Q. Joe Crawford had some turmoil in the season. He hit some shots for you. How
important were his contributions tonight?



COACH SMITH: Every player's contributions are important in a game like. They
are going to give this a great effort when they go in the game. Joe is as
talented a player as we have. Again, when others are struggling, sometimes you
need that lift and he has been -- the toughest thing for any player coming to
college is to learn to play in that type of come off the bench, be ready when
you go in the game to sub. Our guys have a great relationship with one
another. Some of them wonder about me. But that is okay. As far as we do what
we do. In the end they buy into what we -- in our style of play and our
philosophy. Joe takes time. He has seen it and when he is playing relaxed and
making shots he is effective.



Q. Looked like Ravi got banged up a little bit. What is his status? What is
your initial report on him?



COACH SMITH: Just a bruise. He is a tough kid. If he can play he will get some
eyes on him and in David Kindy we have a great trainer. He will do what he has
to do to get him ready. I thought it was a great block. I know that.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Thank you, Coach. Good luck on Sunday.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 25, 2005

  

### [Alan Anderson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14531)

### [Paul Davis](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15025)

### [Tom Izzo](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13984)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: We're joined now by Michigan State university head coach Tom Izzo
and student athletes Paul Davis and Alan Anderson. We'll begin with a brief
opening statement from the head coach.

_

COACH IZZO: A lot of ways I thought we played the game just the way we wanted
to play it. We felt we had to keep pressure on them. We had got some turnovers
the first half. I don't think we wore them down. I do think we kept the
pressure on. We didn't shoot the ball very good. We did offensive rebound
pretty well. I thought we did a pretty good job on Redick. He is a great
player. Between he and Ewing, I don't know what the stats ended up. We didn't
get a lot of runs. That is one thing we felt we had to do is stop the six and
eight point runs. These guys just did a whale of a job. We beat a very, very,
very, good team and the well-coached team. I am tickled with the win.



Q. Alan, can you talk about that first half, you guys had some great looks in
the paint but the shots weren't falling.



ALAN ANDERSON: They had big force with Shelden Williams. We wanted to just get
it in the hole and tried to make them kick out. We felt we could take them off
the dribble as well as they could take us off the dribble. The shots weren't
falling. Just keep attacking until things go your way.



Q. Alan, to get to the Elite 8 with a win over Duke, how does that feel?



ALAN ANDERSON: It feels great. But you can't sit here and be too happy. You
have the Kentucky and Utah game. It is as great win for our school and the
whole program. You can't blow it up too much. We have a game we need to play
and accomplishments.



Q. Could you talk about the pressure you supplied all night? Could you sense
their guards were getting frustrated?



ALAN ANDERSON: We had to use our depth to our advantage. There is no point in
having a rotation if everybody is not going to get after us. We were putting
as much pressure on as possible. They did a great job of handling our pressure
at times. Then again, we capitalized on it and we just shot to keep the
pressure on the whole 40 minutes.



Q. Paul, could you talk about the play where you fouled out Williams with
three minutes to go and how big that was? You ended up getting a put back to
kind of save the game for you guys?



PAUL DAVIS: I think it was actually in the shot. Alan and the couple other
guys kept it alive. Once I got it, I didn't really have a move so I tried to
create and get a pump fake and try to get them in the air. It worked. And then
I did -- my biggest thing wasn't that shot. I was glad I made the free throw.



Q. Can you talk about what Paul did tonight? Not just the way he played but
the emotions he showed?



ALAN ANDERSON: Just aggressive. Like I said, he was attacking the glass. After
he missed the jump shot he didn't put his head down. He followed his shot up
and tried to get another basket up. Just his whole demeanor from the jump ball
to the last free throw he shot was aggressive.



Q. Going back to that play where Shelden got his fifth foul, were you guys
specifically going after him? How did that change things? Was it easier to
rebound?



PAUL DAVIS: The way it worked out, having a player like that out, kind of
opens the lane a little bit more and they don't have a real danger inside. We
can beat some guy with our quickness. It was a huge, huge key. I think we were
trying to go at him and on the opposite end they were doing the same. His
first half I thought was keeping them in the game. So we had to try to do
something different in the second half.



Q. Paul, you played 33 minutes tonight which is more than what you averaged.
Did you get your second wind from the second half there?



PAUL DAVIS: It was a game where you don't get tired in. You know, there is
always catching the second wind for any athlete. I think once the second half
started and things started moving up and down and we did catch it, where he
tried to wear them down, but a team like that, those guys are 40-minute
players. I don't think we really wore them down but I thought we did what we
wanted to. We wanted to run and get guys involved.



Q. Paul, yesterday your coach was talking about how a team can't be
intimidated going into these teams. Can you talk about the mindset of the team
going into this game?



PAUL DAVIS: I think right now a lot of things are paying off for us. Last
year's schedule, playing those teams where we did. I think our experience, I
really do think it helped that we did play them earlier from the season. We
might have a leg up on some other teams. Seeing them and playing them as well
as we did on their court, we were confident coming into this game. We weren't
thinking ourselves as the underdogs.



Q. Were you surprised that you had those open looks for threes and that you
didn't have any guy in your face at all?



ALAN ANDERSON: A couple of them, yeah. But you know, if I was only shooting 19
percent in the tournament. We had to make them play. Like I say, if I wouldn't
have hit those shots, it could have went either way.



Q. Coach talked about preventing them from making runs. They got it down on
the three or four at one point. Your team seemed to be tightening up a little
bit. What got you through that point?



ALAN ANDERSON: We had been through a whole lot of them times. We had to bare
down and do what we did to get to that point to be in the lead. We had to bare
down and execute our plays. We didn't need to score. We just tried to move the
ball around and run the clock down. We were doing a great job at the line. We
were trying to take care of the ball.



Q. Wisconsin won tonight which means three Big-10 teams in the Final Eight.
Through the year I know you heard about the Big-10 being down. What do you
feel now?



ALAN ANDERSON: We are right up there. It shows how tough and strong the Big-10
is. Great job for Wisconsin. Like we said, we have got to keep rolling and
keep playing. Until we get to that point of meeting a Big 10 team, I hope they
keep winning.



Q. What were your feeling when Shannon was knocking down free throws at the
end?



PAUL DAVIS: Really didn't matter who was up there. We as a team, we felt we
just played a 40-minute war. That is what it was. To come out on top, there is
no greater feeling. To be on the sidelines with your coaches and your
teammates, and having our fans up there cheering the whole game. It was
honestly the best feeling you could have to play another day, too.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Time is concluded with the student athletes. You may go back to
your locker room. Open it up now for questions for Coach.

_ 

Q. How gratifying is it for you to see your team get those stops at the end of
the game and hit those free throws when they have come up short in the past?



COACH IZZO: I think they answered that question very well. I have apologized
to them in the last meeting I had with them because I felt that I put these
guys through a lot in the last few years. Sooner or later, as they say, if it
doesn't kill you it makes you stronger. We are a stronger team. We are not
unbeatable. We are getting stronger, we are growing. I am glad it is a three
or four point game. We just kept pounding away and proved to ourselves that we
can win these games. We did it out in Worcester. They are more fun than they
used to be.



Q. Tom, who was in charge of lighting the fire under Paul Davis tonight?



COACH IZZO: His mother and father do a good job of that. I leave that to other
people. I just coach them. I think Paul has played good in big games. Yet I
said about three weeks before the season ending he was consistently playing
better. He was throwing the ball up too much. He was doing a better and better
job of being aggressive. If he gets aggressive, he will be as good as a player
as we all thought. Sometimes it take as little bit longer than you would like
or definitely think I would like, but he is making progress.



Q. Tom, are you little bit closer, in the same area code or same building now?



COACH IZZO: I don't know. I felt we beat a very good team. When they are
coming back there is a confidence about them. Ewing, you have got to love the
kid. He keeps competing. He remembers that big three. We finally made some
free throws. We took another step forward. Like I said, he has got 30 years
and we have got ten. We have got a long way to go.



Q. There was couple of strange calls or plays in the game right at the end of
the half, also that missed dunk. Can you tell me what they told you happened?



COACH IZZO: At the end of the half I knew the clock didn't start. That was the
right calling. On the dunk our guy did not hit it out. The ball has to
continue through the net. I think they were both -- one went for us and one
against us. I think they were both no-brainer calls. I don't think either guy
complained about it much.



Q. Can you just address, where this win leaves you guys? You talked about the
footprint in the sand concept.



COACH IZZO: Couple of players, Eric Snow and Shawn Respert in our locker room
now. What I told these players is beating Duke, you hate to put anything at
the end of the world. I called time-out to make sure we weren't going to
celebrate anything. We have got games to play. Do it with some class. We
talked about a lot of things we haven't done. We had some missed
opportunities. There has been no Michigan State team since 1950-something that
has beaten Duke. This is something to do, something that your predecessors
haven't done. Everyone including me has told you about that.



Q. Can you talk about Shannon Brown. He hit a big three and as usual gave you
energy tonight?



COACH IZZO: He has been struggling a little bit. He is wearing down. He has
played awfully hard. When he needed a second wind, he got it. He made a steal
and couple of big plays. I think you will see Shannon really take off and get
better and better. He has taken off in a lot of areas. He has improved his
defense. He is working on his shooting. One thing about this kid that him and
Ager bring to the table, he wants te ball on big time plays. He wants the ball
at the end of the game. He wants the ball to get fouled. He is competitive and
plays the game that way.



Q. You have two, three different guys guarding Redick, it was successful. Why
did that work well tonight?



COACH IZZO: We put Bograkos on him for a while. We put KT, Kelvin on him. I
thought we did a decent job. We tried to jump to him and so -- he is so
effective on those curl moves. I thought we did a pretty good job on stopping
some of that. They are a good team. At times, you know, maybe just been a long
year for them too. They have had injuries and different things. It sure was a
good team to beat. One thing I knew, they weren't letting us win. We had to
beat them. They don't beat themselves very often. I thought tonight it was as
close to maybe us being the reason we won than them losing the game.



Q. I apologize if the question was asked. I was in your locker room where they
were pumped up right now. Have you got the sense that the underclass tried to
pull this together to win this for the seniors and the coaching staff?



COACH IZZO: No question. Shannon Brown, they know what these guys have done
there. I think that we have rallied. I think from the last couple of weeks, I
feel better about getting some things out in the open and teaming with them. I
think there was as much mental preparation as there was physical preparation.
It was something I felt I had to jump in and get involved with. I think we
made some progress. To be a great team you have to trust the coaches, the
coaches have to trust the players. I never felt -- I felt I was getting along,
but was there that real trust? That has been growing the last couple of weeks.



Q. I asked your player about the Big-10 success. Is this any kind of
indication, does it show the Big-10 was underrated during the regular season?



COACH IZZO: I hate to say that now because I felt it all year long. I thought
some of it was ridiculous. I don't know what word to use. At the same time,
this tournament sometimes is about match-ups too, you know. It is not
necessarily we are better than this team or this team is better than that
team. Sometimes the match-ups create a situation. It is good for everybody to
say this is three Big-10, three ACC. I have no question how good the ACC was
all year. I also knew how good the Big-10 was. You try to make it first or
second, but sixth, seventh, where we were put I thought that was poor. I
really did.



Q. Coach, could you talk a little bit about not being intimidated. When you
get to this point, seeds don't matter. Anybody is frail at this time, anybody
is fragile.



COACH IZZO: I think seeds don't matter almost from the first week. There is
too much parity. You have got to play. As far as the middle teams, those
middle seeds are good. Anybody can beat anybody. That has happened a lot in
the tournament. It is not by accident, it is not that the moon and stars lined
up together. It is here to stay.



Q. For those of us that didn't see the game in Durham this year. Did you apply
the same defensive principles in that game?



COACH IZZO: No. That was when we were starting to learn how to do it. I was
trying to get the rotation down. We ran a little better there. In all honesty,
we showed some of that film on our lapses where we didn't apply the pressure.
That was part of our scouting report. One of the last things we showed today,
that we have to improve in that area.



Q. You know, this senior class has been compared so often from the Final Four
teams. You mentioned in Worcester last week that the it was one of the best
performances that you have ever coached. Are they starting to rekindle the
intensity of those bruising teams that you have had in the past?



COACH IZZO: I hope so. It was just give me 40 minutes of intense focus. 40
minutes, can we stay intense. We didn't do that, but we did -- we had our
letdowns here and there. We are getting to the point where we are having a
much higher percentage of really spilling it. I think that is the credit to
the players.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 24, 2005

  

### [Daniel Ewing](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14303)

### [Mike Krzyzewski](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13672)

### [J.J. Redick](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14306)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: We're joined now by Duke student athletes J.J. Redick and Daniel
Ewing.

_ 

Q. How do you guys feel about all the talk about you not being so deep off the
bench and how that will effect you guys?



J.J. REDICK: We have been hearing that we're not deep all season. We're 27 and
5 in the Sweet 16. I don't think our depth is an issue with us.



Q. What do you remember about the first time you played against Michigan
State, particular towards the end of the game I think you were able to hold
them off?



DANIEL EWING: It was a good game. They came in ready to play against us
earlier in the season. Towards the end of the game, it got real close. We were
able to come up with some defensive stops.



Q. Daniel, Can you talk about your transition to the point? Just how difficult
it has been or how easy it's been? Can you talk about Daniel has been able to
do this season?



DANIEL EWING: My transition to the point I think has been a smooth transition
for the most part. It was kind of difficult when Sean Dockery went out for a
couple games. I have been able to put some points on the board when we need
it.



Q. Any memories you have of the Erwin Center when you were at Willowridge?



DANIEL EWING: A lot of good memories here. I am 4 and 0 in the Erwin Center
while playing for Willowridge High School. We owe it to this Duke team this
rest of this week.



Q. This is your fourth year being in the NCAA tournament. At this time of
year, does Coach turn up the intensity a little bit? Is there something
special that takes over Duke at this time of year?



DANIEL EWING: I think the big thing is they have been in a lot of situations
where they have won a lot of games. The Sweet 16s, the Final Fours, they have
been there a lot of times. They prepare us for any kind of situation that may
come up.



Q. J.J, can you talk about Daniel's play at the point and any situations that
stand out in your mind where he has come through?



J.J. REDICK: Daniel has been great for us all year. He has been the ultimate
teammate. Anything the coaching staff has asked him, he has done. Prior to the
game what I remember the most is his senior night he hit a double-double and
had ten assists. For him to do that was pretty special.



Q. Daniel, dating back to high school, you've never really been the focal
point in terms of the teams you've played on, playing with TJ, and now playing
here at Duke. How hard of an adjustment has it been not being that focal
point?



DANIEL EWING: I think going back to high school, that prepared me for my
situation at Duke, playing with a lot of great players. Like you said, me and
TJ shared the spotlight in high school. I had to be behind a great guy. This
year it is Sheldon. That situation really helped me a lot to be able to do it
and play with good players.



Q. Relate your best Mike Krzyzewski story of dealing with him, something
specific that you will always remember in practice or off the court?



J.J. REDICK: That is a tough question. What are you looking for something?
Real specific or something in general about Coach?



Q. Something that you will always remember.



J.J. REDICK: One thing from my freshman year when we won the ACC tournament
with a real young team, we had six freshman and Daniel was a sophomore and
towards the end of the game I got taken out. I remember coming off the court
and giving Coach this big hug. The smile on his face is probably something I
will never forget.



Q. Guys, when you were three and four, what turned it around to finish nine
and one in the current stretch? What turned your season after that pick-up
part of year?



J.J. REDICK: Well, we play in the ACC, you are going to lose some games
playing in the ACC, especially road games. It is extremely difficult to win on
the road. We didn't set out the season to be perfect, to be 27 and 0 in the
regular season. We had to make adjustments in those games. The turning point
was the Wake game at home after we lost to Virginia Tech. We had to play Wake
a couple of days later. We started three walk-ons, and they set the tone, a
physical fighting tone. That carried on throughout that game and carried on
throughout the rest of the season.



Q. You know, so much is said about teams measuring themselves against the Duke
program. The respect that you have for Michigan State and Coach Izzo, can you
touch on that a little bit?



J.J. REDICK: We have tons of respect for Coach Izzo and the programs he built
at Michigan State. They were national champions a few years ago. The thing we
respect the most out of them , their kids are playing really hard. That is a
sign of respect for their coach.



Q. J.J, you seem to you talk about their whole mindset on the road and on the
league.



J.J. REDICK:  I do get heckled a lot. I get everybody's best shot. Part of
that is because I play for Duke and we get everybody's best shot. It is a role
that I have embraced. It is a role that I have played on the court since I was
13 years old. Kind of being the guy that nobody wants to play against. I have
fun with it. I have fun with the other teams' fans when we play on the road.
It does get brutal sometimes, but I have learned to deal with it.



Q. J.J, when you look at all the attributes on your team that, the talent of
the players and their skills, could you talk a bit about the group's mental
toughness and where they rank in terms of what makes you a good team and where
that came from? Did you start with it or did it evolve?



J.J. REDICK: First of all, with regards to mental toughness, I think mental
toughness and our heart is the two best at attributes as the team more so than
our talent or any other at attributes. I understand we have gotten that mental
toughness and that heart throughout the year. It has developed through the
different situations we have been in whether playing a close game on the road
or playing a close game on the road and losing. We have learned from that.
This is a team that had a lot of blowouts.



Q. J.J, do you feel like you are in a slump when you have games like the last
two?



J.J. REDICK: I never feel like I have slump. I go into every game with
confidence and feeling good about how I am going to play, and feeling good
about our team's chances of winning.



Q. This is for J.J, did you watch any games other than your own last week? If
so, did you count the number of times that American Express commercial with
Coach K ran?



J.J. REDICK:  I watched it a little bit. Not much. Especially during the day.
I don't watch a lot of games. The only game I caught a lot of was the Wake -
West Virginia game. On the way down the Charlotte, it was the first day of the
tournament, we watched a little bit of the games. On the way down we saw eight
Coach K commercials. I think they are great. The American Express ad is
awesome.



Q. J.J, what are your plans for next season? Are you back at Duke or moving
on?



J.J. REDICK: I will definitely be back next season, no question.



Q. When you hear teams say they have got to get physical with you guys, what
do you think about that?



J.J. REDICK: For me, I think about every game we play in. That is not a
changing thing. Since my freshman year everybody has been physical with me.
Really, I mean everybody has been physical this year with Daniel and Sheldon
as well. That is not something new.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Thank you for joining us. We're joined by head coach Mike
Krzyzewski.

_

COACH KRZYZEWSKI: I am ready for questions.



Q. Mike, from where you sit, is this team getting here a remarkable
achievement, maybe an unforeseen achievement that it is being portrayed as?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: I have always allowed other people to portray or tell
whatever story they see. You know, I really think that this group has played
hard every game and has never made any excuses and has won most of their
games. It has been a real rewarding year for me. I have loved working with
these kids and seeing them grow. We've had a lot of guys -- just to take Lee
Melchionni. I never anticipated him being such a huge part in the number of
wins that we have had and making the big plays that he has, not just big
shots. For him to step up like that is great. With the foundation being we
have three outstanding players in Redick and Ewing and Sheldon Williams. But
they are not -- no one is good all the time. So someone has to be there. These
kids have done that.



Q. Coach, one of the big challenges that is Coach Izzo has had is trying to
manage the expectations he created. Can you recall when expectations first
spiked for you at Duke and how you have dealt with that over the years?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: When I got the job. I mean, you know, if you are coaching at
major school like that in a big time conference, you have high expectations
put on you all the time. You know, when you have different levels of
successes, you know, and you stay, you know, then people think that that is
what happens all the time. If you allow that to be your motivating factor,
then I think that is a mistake. I think you just go about your business the
way you normally go about it and not worry about anybody else's expectation
but just your own. To me that has been a healthy way to run our program. That
is the way I tried to run our program. I am sure Tom has done that with him.
He didn't make his expectation; somebody put those on him.



Q. I don't know if you can comment specifically on Andrew Bogut, but can you
talk a little bit about what the accomplished international players do better
than maybe the American college kids do?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: I haven't seen Andrew play as much to comment on him. I
think the European players have been allowed to play with older players more
because of the club system. This is a nurturing system. This is not like high
school ball. They belong to clubs and they are men. They are playing with men
or practicing with men. There are no limitations placed on them as to when
they can practice with their coaches or with these men. We have a lot of rules
and regulations. We don't have that type of system here in the United States.
So I think an international player comes to you with a better chance of being
really coachable. And really part of a team already and not from a star system
that is put out there through an AAU system.



Q. Coach, Coach Izzo talked about your program being a measuring stick and how
he holds you in high esteem. Can you talk about your thoughts on the way he
runs his program?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: Tom and I are good friends. I respect him to the highest
level. I think Michigan State handle things the right way. They have built a
great basketball program over the years. They have great continuity. With Jud
being there as long as he was it started off, and then Pete Newell. There have
been some great coaches at Michigan State. Tom served his apprenticeship and
was a part of the success of Jud. Then him taking over, I thought that was --
when Tom took over, I told him, I said, this is the way it should be. And then
what he has done is he has taken it really high. You know, I think they went
three Final Fours in a row and those things are hard to do. Again, his program
every year is one of the teams that is being mentioned as the possible
national contender. That's what you want. You want to be in that hunt at the
highest level. And that is what Tom has done.



Q. Can you talk about how much Sheldon has improved? Where do you think you
would be without that improvement?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: We wouldn't be here. The main thing that Sheldon has done.
He has a maturity on the court that comes only through the experience you get
from playing in these big games and being asked to play well. Sheldon is as
good a defensive player as there is in the country. We have a different kind
of defense than we have had in the past. Our man-to-man doesn't force as many
turnovers. It doesn't extend as much on the court. But in half court it has
been pretty good. In the games we have won, especially, we have been able to
limit our opponents to low field goal percentage. Our guys on the perimeter do
a good job because they know Sheldon can block shots, and Shav can too. What
Sheldon has done is be able to block shots without putting himself in a
position to foul. When he blocks a shot he usually stay in his play. He
doesn't jump into somebody or swat. He got straight up and down. As a result
he has done a good job of not fouling on those. The other thing is not doing
tired fouls because he has to play a lot of minutes, and maybe holding onto a
post player, he has become smarter about that. Post play is the most difficult
in basketball. And obviously the most physical. The easiest way to get fouls.
He has learned a lot. He has become a really outstanding player.



Q. How difficult do you see this regional from a coaching standpoint just
having the quality of coaches here?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: I haven't looked at the other regionals. I'm not sure I can
tell you who is playing in every other game. You have four outstanding
basketball programs here. Not coaches, but programs. Duke has had a big
basketball tradition before and will have after me. Kentucky, Michigan State,
Utah also. To bring unbelievable basketball programs here and the kids from
all those programs are playing well, it is a great region. This is like -- I
felt like the Sweet 16 is you have four Final Fours going on right now. And
you are going to have a champion of this Final Four. That is why maybe the
ultimate Final Four is so great. You have four champions playing in the
ultimate Final Four, and this Final Four is really good.



Q. A lot has been made of your team's depth. How many guys on your team are
you comfortable with playing a lot minutes in this point of the season?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: Whoever goes out on the court I am comfortable with. I don't
limit the number of guys. There is situational guys like Patrick Johnson.
Didn't play much in the previous two or three games, but against Mississippi
State he had some minutes. He was valuable. Patrick Davidson could do that for
us. It is more situational depth than just saying I am going to play nine or
ten guys. I am not going to do that. I probably play seven, maybe eight. If
the situation arises, then I am not opposed to putting those other kids in.
They have done it at different times during the year. I am going to play J.J.,
Daniel and Sheldon as much as they can play. Not worry about them being tired
or anything like that unless they get in foul trouble.



Q. I Wanted to ask you about Daniel and the changing role that he has had in
his career. Also in that same vein, he has never been the focus. At Duke he
has not been the focus. How does he handle that?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: The main thing he has been is an outstanding player. You
know, if you are in a film that wins an Academy Award, you get a lot of
exposure. He has been in films that have won Academy Awards in high school and
college much. Daniel has gotten recognition. He deserves it. I think the word
is, Daniel is versatile. And being flexible to do a number of different
things, who he guards, he is the best on ball defender that we have had for
the last -- for his whole career. Maybe not his freshman year. Even last year
with Duhon, Daniel was a better on ball defender. Then we asked him to play
off the ball. He has been a point guard. He has been a wing. What he has been
is he has been invaluable to us. And then ultimately he has been a winner. He
is the winningest player in college basketball right now. He has one 111, 12,
something like that. He did the same thing in high school. If you have Daniel
on your team, you win more. That is the good recognition. That is the thing
that a lot of coaches would like to have. A lot of guys like Daniel will win
more.



Q. Talk a little bit about having Duke, Carolina, and NC State all in the
Sweet 16. And when you were in Durham, if you got a feel for the excitement
and atmosphere?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: It is not one school there. It is just ACC basketball and
college basketball. What a lot of you -- I am not sure if anybody knew that
this happened yesterday. I don't know if this has ever happened what happened
yesterday. When we were leaving to come here, there were three charter jets
all waiting at Raleigh-Durham airport with the three teams all going at the
same time. It was like either we were evacuating or we were all deploying. I
hope we are all deploying to our areas of competition. But all of a sudden, I
am looking and I said, I am sure this hasn't happened. That is great for our
region and I am happy for our league.



Q. You spoke of the difficulty of the region. I was wondering, nine Sweet 16s
in a row for you. I think Carolina had a streak of 13 in a row at one point.
How difficult is it now to get a team to this level, to the regional with the
rise in the mid majors and the way college basketball has become more
competitive?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: I don't know how much more difficult or whatever. It is
always difficult to win in this tournament. It is everybody's dream to be in
the tournament. You are usually not going to play against somebody who is
afraid or, geez, I don't want to play in the NCAA tournament, it is mid-
January or mid-February or whatever it is. This is what I have dreamed to do.
I think the talent base is more widespread right now, because of all the kids
that have gone early over the years. It is a tougher tournament right now. And
anybody can win it. Any one of these 16 teams can win the national
championship. I am not sure that you would say that in too many other years.
That is the way the tournament has evolved.



Q. Can you beat Michigan State if offensively they play the same way they did
the first two games?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: If we play as hard defensively in rebounds. The game -- you
know, in every sport, the game isn't always beautiful. You got to do something
good, though, usually to win a game. Out of three things, offense, rebounding
and defense, you do two of them, you might have a chance. That is what
happened for us in the first two ball games. We rebounded well and we played
good defense. To me, those are the two things we have done most of the year.
That is why we have won. We haven't won because of our offense. Do I hope to
play better offense? Yes. Can we win without it? Yes. But it won't be very
easy.



Q. Coach, you mention that had you're good friends with Coach Izzo. Could you
elaborate on that how often do you talk? How aware have you been that he
molded his program after yours?



COACH KRZYZEWSKI: He has been around a lot of good coaches. I am sure Tom has
given me more respect than I needed to get. I got to know Tom when he was an
assistant. I saw how hard he worked for Jud, and knowing Jud, how hard it is
to work for Jud. You have to laugh at his bad jokes all the time. Tom didn't
laugh at his jokes, so I respected that. Tom is very involved in the game, the
U.S. basketball movement, and he has given time to that. The coaches
association, you know. In the last two years, he and I and a few other coaches
have served on a somewhat private committee, an ad hoc committee with
President Brand from the NCAA. We have gotten to know each other as guys who
were in a great profession and loved the game. I know that side of him. You
don't always get to know the other guy that way -- during the year, I mean.
I've hard time -- I don't talk to many people. If I was going to call anybody
in the Big-10, I would call Tom. And he wouldn't want me to talk to Tom. So,
it is not like you are constantly on the phone like you guys are on the phone.
We're not on the phone very much. We are very lonely guys.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Thank you, Coach. Good luck this weekend.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 24, 2005

  

### [Andrew Bogut](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14508)

### [Ray Giacoletti](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13818)

### [Marc Jackson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15035)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: We'll take questions from the media.

_

COACH GIACOLETTI: We're very excited to be here. It is a great opportunity to
have a chance to not only win games s last weekend in the NCAA tournament, but
a chance to play in the second weekend. A lot of has been made of the Kentucky
team. It doesn't matter who it is, you have got to play someone. With the
background of Utah and Kentucky, I know this week a lot of has been made of
it. Most of us weren't here through any of the last five games, so kind of, I
think, it is a new era for the Kentucky players, our staff and our program.
So, obviously we're excited and going to hopefully give a great effort on
Friday.



Q. What did you say to Marc to make him want to return, what were those
conversations like and how did you convince him?



COACH GIACOLETTI: I didn't have to convince him at all. I was just telling
Bonnie, the day I was announced at Utah, he was in the compliance office
trying to figure out what he had to do to get a year back. That weekend it
took me a couple of days to get his phone number. The following week we had a
chance to talk three times. Before he talked with our staff, he went and
talked to the players about him coming back. I thought that showed lot of
character to have visited with our team before the staff. The one thing I
remember about Utah basketball was this tough little guy that played the game
with so much passion. Until I got the job I didn't realize he had a year left.



Q. What stood about Andrew versus American high school aged kids?



COACH GIACOLETTI: As far as him as a person?



Q. Developmentally?



COACH GIACOLETTI: I think he as skilled a big guy as I have ever seen. Most
times when people think of international players, they think they are skilled
but soft. Andrew is not soft. He has got a Croation background. He has got
great toughness. You put that combination together with skill and toughness,
you end up with a best player in college basketball.



Q. You mentioned the previous five games and much has been said and written
about it in almost all of those because Kentucky won because they had better
players. Is there a talent difference this year?



COACH GIACOLETTI: I think Kentucky is more athletic then we are, and deeper
than we are. Tubby Smith has played 13 kids in 25 games this year. But it
doesn't matter. It is a 40 minute game and it is a one shot opportunity. It is
not the best of three or whatever it may be. We have to play a certain style
to be competitive and give us a chance to be successful at the end. If we're
able to do that, great, if not -- we'll advance and go on, or lose and go
home.



Q. Is somebody preparing for Kentucky? What are your impressions of what Chuck
Hayes brings to that team?



COACH GIACOLETTI: He seems like the glue to that team. He is versatile. He can
guard four different players on the floor. Offensively it is the same thing.
He is the guy on a smaller player that is going to take you to the post and
post you up. As a bigger guy he can shoot the basketball. He is skilled enough
to get to the basket. He seems to be ahead of the team and the glue to it.



Q. Can you talk about the trip to Australia to talk Andrew about coming to
Utah. That is obviously a long trip, and how much longer was it with your
uncertainty?



COACH GIACOLETTI: Our staff had five weeks to develop a relationship with
Andrew before the school was out. He was going right to the Olympic training
facility. Our focus was to build a relationship with him, not ask him what you
are going to do, not pester him. We did that through individual work. He had
two hours a week with the NCAA rules. I asked him just stop by the office for
five minutes a day, just get to know them as people. When I went down there,
it was more than just to visit. I had talked a number of times with his mom
and dad on the phone. I thought it would be appropriate to sit down face-to-
face to talk about what we wanted to do. We wanted to help Andrew reach his
goals. We had dinner and it was very casual. There wasn't a whole lot of
trying to talk anybody into anything. At the end, Andrew said he would be
back. The one thing that was different with kids in the America and family in
America, and people in Europe, their words are gold. They had lot of different
opportunities to go back on their word; they didn't. I think they are rewarded
for it now.



Q. Ray, I was curious about the company you are keeping here with other three
coaches. Have you heard of them before, had any relationship with them?



COACH GIACOLETTI: I'm not sure how I fit in with them. I'm excited to be here.
I worked for Bob Bender for five years. He was one of the first assistants for
Krzyzewski more many years. There is some association there. Tubby Smith was
head at Tulsa for a couple of years. I am probably the odd man out in the
whole mess.



Q. On the trip to Australia, how long were you on the ground? Did it put a
crunch in your recruiting budget?



COACH GIACOLETTI: It would have used our entire budget at Eastern Washington.
Thank God for Utah having a bigger budget. The trip back was a good trip
knowing that Andrew was going to come back. Right now you would do it all
again if you had the chance to be 29 and 5, and playing in the Sweet 16. We
had to do what we thought was best. It was the right thing to do.



Q. Can you talk about the guards playing tomorrow, and how you are going to
match up and particularly your impression of Rajon?



COACH GIACOLETTI: I think he is a great defender. He is a consistent point
guard, and really makes others play better. We need to do a good job of
containing his penetration. Guard play for us this whole year is kind of when
we have been good on the perimeter, we have been better as a team. Sparks is a
guy that concerns me. When he has gotten it going from threes, it made their
team that much better. We're going to start with those two guys. Try to get
Rajon contained in the transition so that he doesn't get easy things to the
basket, and be able to find people like he has done.



Q. Since expectations are pretty high this year, the Sweet 16 in your first
season, are you concerned next year when Marc and Andrew may be gone, the
expectation will remain the same and you might not have the tools?



COACH GIACOLETTI: I just deal with reality. Trying to do the best we can. We
have signed five years and one was the best in the state of Utah. We try to
deal with that problem when it gets here. Right now our problem is Kentucky
and the present. Expectations? I wouldn't have taken the job with no
expectations. Coach Majerus will live on in history at Utah. We can only do
the best we can and lay your head on the pillow at night. If it is good
enough, great, if not, we did our best.



Q. Obviously you didn't know that Marc was going to be with you when you took
the job. I was wondering if he had to mend any fences with either you or his
teammates when he came back to the team, or did he just get an automatic free
pass to come back?



COACH GIACOLETTI: The first people he went and visited with was his teammates.
The only thing I asked him was just to tell me about why you walked away, and
we kept that confidential. And two, that it would be a clean slate. We met
three times before we agreed upon some things. It worked. I needed to talk to
the players after I met with Marc a couple of times. He had already taken care
of that and done a great job with it. It was a smooth transition.



Q. Can you talk about Andrew as a player, what were your expecting from his
skills? How has he competed? In what ways has he gotten better this year?



COACH GIACOLETTI: The only thing we had to judge was from film all year. After
he made the decision to come back, I went over to work with him, and that was
first time I saw just how good he could be. Individual work you saw he was
skilled, and he could shoot the ball better. He was more skilled than you saw
on tape. In the Olympics you saw a 19 year-old that had toughness, playing
against the world's best men. I remember they played the Greeks in a hostile
environment with 12,000 people jammed in this little gym. They were serving
alcohol; it was crazy. The 30 year old Greek center just chucked Andrew in the
chest. I said, let's see what the 19 year old is going to do. He made a
statement by chucking him back. The youngest person participating in the
basketball side of the venue wasn't going to be bullied or pushed around much.
He ended up having a great tournament. That is when I thought we had something
special.

_

ROB CAROLLA: I appreciate you joining us. Thank you. Joined now by the Utah
student athletes.

_ 

Q. Andrew, you said in one of your statements you would love to spend the
Drazen Petrovic. What would you want to say to him?



ANDREW BOGUT: I would just like to meet him because he is my idol, you know.
I'd like to see the way he worked, like to work out with him for a day. Just
to see what types of things he goes through in a day. I know he works out from
9:00 to 5:00, and works his butt off every day. That is something I admired
growing up. I have been through some of the same things he has. He got cut
from a couple of teams as a kid. That would be my ideal if I met him.



Q. Could you beat him one on one?



ANDREW BOGUT: Yeah.



Q. Marc, what about the playing for COACH Majerus made it so difficult for you
that you wanted to come back? What did COACH Giacoletti say to you to make you
want to come back?



MARC JACKSON: For the thing with COACH Giacoletti, I don't think it was going
to be him. I didn't know who he was. He called me and he kind of talked for a
couple of weeks and figured some things out. You know, there wasn't much said
to convince me to come back. I was waiting for Bogut's decision to see what he
was doing. You know, I wanted to make the best situation happen if he came
back. That made things happen a lot quicker. It was just one of those things
that we were both, you know, trying to see if we will be able to work it out
academically, and things did. So there really wasn't much said.



Q. Was in here talking about the big game in the Olympics against Greece
against the big brawny center.



ANDREW BOGUT: I was just playing my man. It wasn't something personal or
anything like that. I wasn't trying to prove a point. I was just playing. I
get pretty fired up in a game situation than in a practice. That's just my
ball playing, the way I play.



Q. I was curious when you came back to the basketball team how your teammates
welcomed you back. The COACH said you had some private moments with them
before you were welcomed back. Can you talk about their acceptance of you?



MARC JACKSON: For most of part it was pretty good. Definitely there was some
individual comments that were made. Me and Tim Drisdom, we had a prior
relationship that was very good, and I talked to him and asked how things
were, you know, and what his feelings were if I came back. Everything was
pretty much on the same page. There was no bad feelings. We had a meeting and
talked about things that happened in the past. We moved on and definitely we
were more joined as a team this year.



Q. Andrew, growing up were you aware of teams like Duke and Kentucky? Do those
names have any recognition in Australia?



ANDREW BOGUT: Not really. NCAA basketball is not big overseas at all. I didn't
even know about the Mountain West Conference or how the tournament works.
Coming over here you obviously heard about them. The media loves them.
Kentucky is a pretty big name. Obviously, there is whole series we played with
them. We haven't beaten them in a while, and blah-blah blah. We have to come
back and play basketball. We don't care what is written on their shirts.



Q. You actually played against Kentucky in Nashville two years ago. You are
aware of the blah-blah blah. Why this time could it be different, and why if
Kentucky knocked Utah out of the tournament how this time be different?



MARC JACKSON: It could be different because of the guy on the right of me. Two
years ago we didn't have that. Our team is fresh. We are still fresh at this
point in the year. We weren't here two years ago. It is one of those things.
They do have the name Kentucky. They are a different team, and we are a
different team. We are playing well right now. We have a lot of confidence. We
have got a good game plan. We have to execute.



Q. What made you believe that you could better develop your skills in college
this year than perhaps playing professionally in Europe?



ANDREW BOGUT: The two biggest factors were I would have to learn a whole new
language. Being further away from my family, and not being able to speak
English and so on. Obviously the situation was good. It was a fresh start for
me. It was a fresh start for the guys. I knew he would bring a new confidence
to the guys. In the summer before I went home I knew what the Coach was
impressed with me. He came to visit me in Australia. That was the bottom line.



Q. Question about the Australian Institute of Sports. What part of your game
was most developed with your time there, and now that you are in the
headlines, how many people have asked you about it?



ANDREW BOGUT: Somebody asked me about it three minutes ago. It definitely
developed me a hundred percent. It puts you in a situation where you are
playing basketball every day. You may get Sundays off. You wake up in the
morning with a shooting session. I go to my high school on a school bus. The
rest of the athletes go to the high school and come back, lift weights, eat
lunch, come back after that. You have study hall when you are in high school.
It taught me the professionalism that comes with the game. Obviously now the
media hype and stuff, so on and so on.



Q. No that you know how the NCAA tournament works do you think this of yours
has the ability to win four more games?



ANDREW BOGUT: Definitely. Hopefully we're taking it game by game, then we'll
think about what is lying ahead. We don't want to put ourselves in that
situation. If we can play good basketball this next game -- if we win that, we
will be thinking that the Final Four. Obviously in the past couple of weeks we
won the regular season conference. New Mexico got the win and that was a big
factor.



Q. Andrew, have you played against anyone this year who has intimidated you?
If not, was part of it because you didn't pay attention to NCAA basketball
when you were overseas?



ANDREW BOGUT: I'm not intimidated really. I was intimidated as a kid. It is a
challenge going against players that are better than me. It is part of the
game. I love doing it. The fact that we watches it from overseas didn't effect
me either.



Q. Marc, do you have any sense in the game that what people are clamoring for
is to see Kentucky and Duke?



MARC JACKSON: Obviously that is why there are 16 teams here. We have worked
hard. People didn't chose us. It's one of those things. We don't have any
pressure on us. You know, we would like to burst their bubbles. That is one
thing of being an underdog, I guess. It is one of things that is enjoyable
about this game.



Q. Andrew, I was curious to know if Marc had to do any fence building or fence
repairing with you, with him coming back?



ANDREW BOGUT: Not really. I heard a lot about him and the way he played when I
was being recruited. It was a big factor to go there. I don't know if I was
missing out on something. We obviously clashed a couple of times this year. We
had some scuffles. He remembers that. I was pretty firey. We would get over it
the next day. He is great to play with. Without him we wouldn't be here today.



Q. Along those lines, Marc, can you talk about how much easier he makes the
game?



MARC JACKSON: Having him down low is definitely a big advantage for us guards.
When we threw it in there teams have to prepare for a double team or triple
team. It makes our shot a lot better. Our percentages have gone up because of
that. Having a big man that can pass out of a double and triple team makes it
easy for the cutters or field guy to shot the jumper. Makes the game a lot
more simpler.



Q. We talked about how you were on the floor the last time that Utah played
Kentucky.



MARC JACKSON: The first time, you know, like Andrew said, he is not very
intimidated by people. You know, I am the same way. I am very competitive. I
like the challenge. I like that higher status that Kentucky play brings in. I
came off the bench two years ago. I told myself I was going to be aggressive
and let the game come to me. Same thing this year. Let the game come to me.
Andrew makes things easier on us. It will be a very fun game because, you
know, they have to prepare for us a lot more than what they did two years ago.



Q. Marc, when you were working with your uncle, did you think it could get
back to any point like this?



MARC JACKSON: I didn't know I was going to have an opportunity. When I got
that phone call from Coach Giacoletti that was a surprise. I knew he got the
job. It was just one of those things I consider a blessing. I don't think I
would have the opportunity to come back. It has been more than I imagined.
Coach Giacoletti and I, we always talk about it. We have done this much; we
can't break it.

_

ROB CAROLLA: I appreciate you joining us, good luck this week end.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 24, 2005

  

### [Kelenna Azubuike](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16335)

### [Chuck Hayes](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14498)

### [Tubby Smith](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13960)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: Were joined now by the University of Kentucky student athletes.

_ 

Q. Chuck, I want to ask you a little bit about your little brother and your
relationship with him and what that has meant to you.



CHUCK HAYES: My little brother, Thaddeus? That is different. That is my heart.
Matter of fact, he will be here at the game this weekend. I mean, whenever I
see him, I see myself, and I mean, when I am around him, I have no choice but
to smile. My little brother, he is close to me.



Q. Chuck, I have heard somebody say you might be like Tubby's favorite player.
You seem to be real popular with everybody. What is it about yourself that
endears you to the fans?



CHUCK HAYES: I don't know what it is. I can't say it is the way I play. The
fans, the way how Coach appreciates it. I can say it is a lot of luck. I can
say the fact that I am two thousand miles a way from home so they embrace me
real well. I think it is a combination of a lot of things. I don't think I am
a favorite. He gets on me like everybody else.

KELENNA AZUBUIKE: Coach has embraced him as a son.



Q. The two of you, I don't know if you guys are prepared for this or not. What
kind of role will you play in defending Bogut down low?



KELENNA AZUBUIKE: Basically, if he gets to it -- we are going to try to limit
his touches, but if he gets to it we have got to rotate to the other guys to
try not to let him get cuts to the basket. Basically, everybody rotates well
and talks and communicates.



Q. People often talk about teams playing their best basketball down this
stretch. Do you feel like you personally are playing your best basketball?



KELENNA AZUBUIKE: I think we are playing good. I think each game we continue
to get better. I still don't think we are playing our best. I think we can
play a lot better. I am playing well. I have been trying to be as aggressive
as possible. Still trying to be smart, try to help each other be a leader and
talk to the guys and just be on the same page as everybody. Stay aggressive
and play our role.



Q. Chuck, this region has three coaches who have been to the Final Four. Coach
K obviously gets a lot of attention. How would you make a case, or might you,
for your coach, being among the best coach in the country? And so what makes
him that?



CHUCK HAYES: We're grateful enough to have one of the three coaches here with
the championship. I mean, Coach Smith, he has been to the Final Four. He has
won at every level. His record in March is outstanding. Coach K and his
program are getting a lot of attention, but we also have a great coach over
here in Lexington.



Q. Chuck, it seems Utah, every word out of their mouth is saying the pressure
is all on you. They seem to say they are playing without pressure, they have
nothing to lose. They think that is the big advantage for them.



CHUCK HAYES: I don't feel no pressure. I am pretty sure the rest of the team
doesn't. I don't see where the pressure comes from. Right now we are playing
really well. We just came off a big game with Cincinnati. We are going into
the game just like they are.



Q. Chuck, your senior year, Florida robbed you of the chance of cutting down
the nets in Atlanta. Do you anticipate doing that here?



CHUCK HAYES: That is definitely a goal for this team. We had an opportunity to
reach that in Atlanta but came up short, so, I mean, I'm looking for it, I am
sure Kelenna is. If we play the way we like to, we definitely have a chance to
cut down nets.



Q. Chuck, can you talk about any sense of a buzz about people wanting to see
you guys and Duke and how you are avoiding thinking about that?



CHUCK HAYES: Have I thought about it?



Q. How you are avoiding trying to think about it?



CHUCK HAYES: We're not paying attention to the next game, just Utah. It is no
secret, unless we find out we are in the same region -- and everybody knows
this is one of the greatest games ever. Right now we are focused on the Utah
and how we will limit Bogut's touches.



Q. Can you talk about Bogut and what you have seen on film of him?



CHUCK HAYES: The guy, he looks long. He is very big on TV. He is very
fundamentally stout. He has a nice touch around the basket. One thing he has
been getting credit for is his passing out of the post in the last two games
that we watched they played in the tournament. The big guy, he can pass. He is
very unselfish. It will definitely be a challenge for us.



Q. Chuck, does Kentucky's tournament history give you confidence or is that
irrelevant?



CHUCK HAYES: That is in the past. That is a different group of players on both
sides. They have a new coach. It is a totally different system right now. It
is anybody's ball game.



Q. Chuck, Kelenna seems to be in rare form. He seems to be in a good mood. He
is usually reserved. How would you explain that he seems to be very happy?



CHUCK HAYES: Just a inside joke. He is a comedian right now. He is just
whispering stuff to me as I am talking.

KELENNA AZUBUIKE: I am serious.



Q. Are you hearing that from fans? Are they talking to you about it?



CHUCK HAYES: No. Media.



Q. Just media?



CHUCK HAYES: Yeah.



Q. Do you think Andrew Bogut has seen a team that can throw two seven footers
at him and the six-ten?



CHUCK HAYES: I don't know. They are in the Mountain West. I am not sure if
they have a player like that. But the guy, he is a first team all American. He
last seen double-double all year and still put up the numbers he has. I am
pretty sure he is expecting it. We have to rotate and get to the open man.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Guys, looks like you are all settled. Good luck this weekend.
Joined now by University of Kentucky head coach Tubby Smith.

_ 

Q. Tubby, when someone brings up the '98 championship game, what are your
memories of that?



COACH SMITH: Fond memories. Obviously winning the national championship is
something you don't do -- we haven't done it that often. You reminisce about
all the players. You reminisce about us coming from behind, being down by ten
at halftime. It was a great effort on our team's part to come back and get
that way. You know, being in Texas a lot of things have similarities. Being
here now we appreciate Austin hosting this. It is a beautiful town, beautiful
city. I have been here a few times in the past. Coming back to Texas at this
point in time in my career and with the team, another team with the Wildcats,
is really like deja vu. That is what it seems like.



Q. What do you guys have to do to make sure Bogut doesn't have a monster game?
Obviously if he does have a good game it will hurt you guys. What do you have
to do to make sure that doesn't happen? When you see him on film what do you
see?



COACH SMITH: You see a pro. You Andrew Bogut's ability level and skill level
is agreement. You try to work as hard as you can to make him work. Given a lot
of different looks, he has a lot of talent to go with it. Marc and some of the
guys will do the same thing. The ball has to go to the goal when you have as
many double-doubles as he has, as consistent as he is. It is not -- again, it
is not going to be easy. When we play a style that we play, the trapping
style, you know, I think again, you can't give them one strict diet of doing
things. You have to change it up to make him take more time to find people
open.



Q. Again with Bogut, in recent years or maybe further than that, when we talk
about great college basketball players the true centers don't come up. Why in
your opinion has the game evolved away from the true big man?



COACH SMITH: Sometimes it is the rules. The shot clock has been a part of it.
The three point shooting has been a part of it. A lot of change in college
basketball over the years. The different defensive special defenses that have
been employed to a post player. I think the widening of the plain. Obviously a
few years ago it wasn't as wide. Those are some of the things that have taken
place over the years. Abilities of the athletes, the big players. They have
been pretty mobile. The style of play. A lot of people don't think that people
play a up tempo style, that teams always look to go run. Some of your post
people have to be willing and able to get up and down the court. That is what
you appreciate about Andrew. He can get up and down the court. He can face the
basket and shoot, dribble, you know, just multi-talented, multifaceted. It has
been a big reason why the post people have evolved the way they have.



Q. On the same line you called him a pro. How unusual is it to see a big man
of his skills even at a college?



COACH SMITH: Most of them left during high school. I think because he came
from Australia, their style of play is very close to the way we play. They
play -- Australian basketball is -- having been down there with the team in
2000, he is a typical of a lot of players that come from that country and how
they play. They play aggressively. They play physical. He has got that in his
game. The physicality of it. The aggressiveness, attacking the basket, so,
that is it. I lost my train of thought that. I hope I answered it.



Q. Just being around the team last week, it seems like everybody has an
affection for Chuck Hayes including yourself. Is it the fact that he is a
four-year guy and there aren't that many of those in this era?



COACH SMITH: I call him a servant. He is always willing to give of himself. He
is not a taker, his a giver. He is a contender, not a pretender. He is a guy
when you see him, he is well-rounded in that he has a lot of virtues and
characteristics that any parent would want in their son or child. Obedient,
caring, trusting, hard-working. He leads by example on and off the basketball
court. When you can look up to someone like that, whether you are a new to the
team or whether you are first meeting him, he has a way of embracing you or
attracting people to him and drawing people to him. He is very accessible,
willingness to talk to people. Just to go out of his way, the things he does
in our community and around the school and with that. Those are things that
you can't teach. Those are things that you obviously learn a long time with
his parents and in his upbringing as going to school at Modesto Christian.



Q. When did Bogut first come on your radar? Did you see him play in the
Olympics?



COACH SMITH: We tried to recruit or get involved with him about three years
ago. We felt like we needed a post player. We did some vision and some -- I
never regularly had a chance to watch him play until he got to the states and
that was after he got to Utah.



Q. Tubby, in what ways might coaching in March be different than any other
time?



COACH SMITH: Well, difference is you are playing your players obviously with
four freshman. They never played long in their lives. Usually they are down
with their scholastic gains and getting ready for all star games. That is one
difference. You know, I guess the sheer onslaught of coverage, media coverage,
we get quite a bit of it at Kentucky. It is a lot different when you get to
this stage. It is fun because you are measuring yourself against types that
you watch during the course of the season. I know from the coaching
standpoint, our players obviously get excited about it. It is the greatest
timing of year for college sports. March Madness gets everybody excited.



Q. Tubby, can you speak to the idea of depth in the tournament and how much or
how deep you are willing to go in these games versus the regular season and
how much of a factor you think it is in the tournament in general?



COACH SMITH: I don't know how much of a factor it is. That is just our style.
That is the way we have coached all year long. I think our players here have
been coached to go a certain amount of time and certain level of intensity and
then we try to keep that intensity level. We usually try to bring in fresh
people, fresh players. In the game against Cincinnati we played I think 13
players in the first half. In the end in the second half we probably went with
guys that played longer, Chuck and Rajon and Kelenna. They didn't come out
much in the second half. It is usually a game to game feel. Once you get in
tournament play it is a one game tournament, things are not working, you try
something different. That is the way I operate. I don't have the luxury of --
we had a different talents. They are not all in that one player. Like Utah,
they have it all in one -- I have been impressed with a guy like Andrew. You
never want to take him out of the game. He can beat you offensively,
defensively, passing the ball. Not that we don't have a talented group of
guys. In our starting line-up, our veteran players, Kelenna, Chuck and
Patrick, they have been through the wars. They are very studious and very
knowledgeable players that under our system do extremely well. Randolph Morris
has become a lot more mature and a lot more -- he has more experience. He is
staying out of trouble. Rajon is growing up and showing great floor
leadership. We come off the bench with some veteran people. Sheray Thomas
overcame surgery earlier in the year. Bobby Perry, Shagari. All our guys, Ravi
Moss have been guys that have given us solid play from day one. I coach that
way. If a guy is on the team he is on there for a reason. I think they should
be able to contribute. I try to find opportunities for them to play.



Q. Coach, this is the time of year when a lot of us like to look at the
brackets and pair how many teams out of a certain conference are getting this
far. Would it be fair to characterize that as a down year for SEC, or why or
why not?



COACH SMITH: We have one team left playing. This wasn't a down year for us. We
competed with some very solid players. I think there were some injuries
throughout the season that hampered some teams. I look back at Mississippi
State. Once you get to this level you have got to come with some real
intensity and also the experience of having been here before through coach,
staff or players. I think our conference is still relatively young when you
look at the players on the different teams throughout the SEC. We think about
the teams in this NCAA tournament. You are looking at who we have to compete
with next year. Everybody is back at LSU, all their front court people. Teams
like Vanderbilt has everybody back. A lot of people have a lot of people back.
Florida has people back. When you say down year, I don't see it as a down year
at all. Everybody goes through some cycles. Sometimes you have more veteran
players than others. I think it is a year where we have a lot of young
players.



Q. How is a 20 year old like Bogut a better overall basketball player than a
20 year old American college student?



COACH SMITH: I don't know. I guess he has had more access to probably -- just
because of talent; God given talent. God doesn't just give talent to American
players, he gives it to everybody.



Q. Do you have any sense that people just assume it will be you guys playing
Duke when this comes to Sunday?



COACH SMITH: I don't have any comment about that. You ask me is there a
distraction, is that what you said?



Q. Just whether you have a sense that people automatically assume that will
happen?



COACH SMITH: No, I don't. I don't really pay much attention to what people
think. I am too worried about -- hard for me to understand. I am thinking
about our team and keeping us focused on our goals. So, I really don't spend a
lot of time thinking about that.



Q. Tubby, when you are playing a guy as good as Bogut is, is it problematic
that you focus so much on him, that you can't follow the other players on this
team?



COACH SMITH: You don't have a whole lot of team. We were off a few days. We
play Saturday, we took a day and a half off there. Our players really didn't
start concentrating and focusing on Andrew Bogut and Utah. We don't focus on
Andrew. We focus on the Utes. That is what we focus on. We know it is five on
five or 15 on 15. It is not necessarily Andrew Bogut against so and so. It is
a team effort. I am sure that they feel the same way. They play that way. He
is very talented player. We have many ways of dealing with it in a player like
a veteran player. He has been a real key to their success. You have got to
have that type of leadership. You have other people that I mentioned here that
are doing a tremendous job for them. I really am impressed with what Ray
Giacoletti has done. I remember when he was at Illinois State with Bob Bender
and in the Missouri Valley conference at Tulsa. You know he was going to be a
great coach.



Q. Coach, how would you evaluate Azubuike's play in the tournament so far?



COACH SMITH: Outstanding. He is playing with a lot of confidence. He is really
developed into a go-to guy. He has been there all along. He is one of our best
on the team. You know, I look at what he is doing defensively. That is where
he is probably improved most over the last year or so. His rebounding. Again,
he is regularly taking the challenge. He is playing a lot more relaxed than he
was earlier in the season for a lot of reasons. The main reason I think we
have peaked at the right time is because of his play. He has played well over
the last month or so not just during the tournament.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Coach, we appreciate you joining us. Good luck.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S 3RD & 4TH ROUND REGIONALS:
AUSTIN](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+3RD+%26+4TH+ROUND+REGIONALS%3A+AUSTIN)

  

## March 24, 2005

  

### [Alan Anderson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14531)

### [Paul Davis](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15025)

### [Chris Hill](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16334)

### [Tom Izzo](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13984)

  
_AUSTIN, TEXAS_  
  
_

ROB CAROLLA: We're joined now by Michigan State university head coach Tom
Izzo. We'll open with a brief opening statement.

_

COACH: We're thrilled to be here, I will tell you that. It is good to be back
in the Sweet 16. I think our players have deserved this opportunity,
especially our seniors who have been through a grueling four years. When I
look back, it has been productive. I think we are meeting the cream of the
crop when you play Duke. It is well documented how good a team this is and how
good a program this has been. I look at this as a great challenge, but one
that look forward to.



Q. Tom, I am guess when you were growing up some, of your vivid memories were
of the UCLA dynasty. How do you compare Duke to that 10 or 12 year run that
UCLA had then?



COACH: As you say, UCLA was awfully good. When you look at this modern day era
with the parody being so much better, it is more incredible what Mike has done
there. I think the scrutinization is so much more and he has dealt with it . I
would almost like to talk to him how he dealt with it and managed it then how
he has built his team. He is definitely the benchmark. There is no ifs, ands
or buts about it. Like I said a hundred times, he has done it over time and he
has done it the right way and he has battled through some losses himself as
far as players and still maintained his excellence. That puts him in every
way, shape or form right up there not being in the John Wooden era. I knew I
had great respect for Coach Wooden, but it is hard to top what make Krzyzewski
has done.



Q. Your thoughts on how you might want to handle Ewing and Redick this time
around?



COACK IZZO: Like to tie them up and make sure they can't lift their right arms
because they did a lot of damage against us last time. We have to check them
better for sure. We have to be more aware of them from a farther distance than
we were, especially Redick who shot the ball. And you saw the game from a long
ways out, I will put it that way. But you know, they have been great players.
Redick has improved their game. They both have. That makes them harder to
cover. You can't step up on screens and things like that. You have to cover
them one-on-one. I am hoping at least we can do that.



Q. I know after the Vermont victory you said your team had taken a big step
but wasn't there yet. Could you talk with any specificity about the unrealized
potential you see in your players? Can they make a leap still?



COACH: I think consistency with a group, you know, we still haven't
consistently shot the ball like we did for a year and half. For some reason
the last part of the year we haven't shot the three like we did before. I
think that is one area that we can definitely make some progress and just
consistently staying focussed. We're athletic enough. If we get everybody to
play as hard as they can, then I think we can take one more step. Of course
getting over the hurdle in front of us is a big step, but I think a step that
players are capable of and the program is capable of.



Q. Can you talk about how stacked this region is and how the challenge will be
to get through this bracket?



COACH: It is awesome. When you look at there and you have three programs that
have gone Final Fours in the last seven, eight years. And then you have one of
the best players in Redick. You have Bogut. And that lends for an incredible
regional. I have great respect for Ray, the job he has done this year. Of
course Tubby. We have played them more than a couple of times in the last four
or five years. I don't think it could be a better regional. If you are going
get to a Final Four, what better way to do it. I think this regain has that.



Q. You talked to us at the beginning of playing the cream of the crop. Usually
that comes with some factor of intimidation. Has that is changed for Duke? You
have Coach Krzyewski talking about how they are not intimidating.



COACH: I don't think they are intimidating for us. That doesn't mean we can
beat them. What it means is we prepared this team. I think you can prepare a
team to play the best. We have gone on the road and played. We have played
teams for the last four years non Conference. As I said many times, we have
played in every venue possible. I don't think we are intimidated by the name.
Maybe we were years ago. I think this might be one of his best coaching jobs.
When I look at his team compared to so many other teams. But unless you're
there day to day, you don't know that. We're as prepared to play Duke as we
have ever been and you have still got to beat them.



Q. Duke has played fairly short bench rotation but obviously that hasn't
affected them so far this year. I got sense from your teleconference the way
you guys play you might be able to wear them down some. Is that correct?



COACH: Maybe, key five letter word. I think this team is mentally tough. I
still think there is physical toughness. This is mentally tough. That is why
Redick and Ewing, they are 12 volt batteries. They just keep going. I have
been impressed by that in the NCAA tournament. Of course the timeouts, it
changes things a little bit. It just comes down to our guys are going to run
as hard offensively and defensively. I think we have more numbers. Whether
that will be a factor, only time will tell. I think it is one that we've used
most of year. It has been against a lot of teams. Whether it will be against
Duke, we will find out.



Q. Tom, you have spoken about this before. Was there a time when you had awe
for Duke, respect, and then now maybe frustration because you would like to
beat them?



COACH: I can throw out a few other words, if you want me to do that. The one
that comes back is respect. I have always had respect. I will have respect.
Every one of us wants to do some things and maintain. Maintaining is harder
than getting there. So, I have respect for what he has done off the court and
in the classroom, in all ways. Frustration? Yeah, a little bit. Not as much as
you think. You know, I think we have played some pretty good games in all but
one. Sometimes that is what happens. I am not frustrated to say, oh, we can't
beat them. We haven't played them that many times. I just think it is just
another hurdle to get over. This would be a great time and place to do it.



Q. Tom, can you talk about your point guard position and where it rates as
being a strength for your team?



COACH: I think it is getting better and better. Chris Hill, his assist to
turnover ratio has been phenomenal, and Drew Neitzel who is truer of the point
guards has gone from learning how to play at this level to now knowing how to
play at this level. It is a matter of picking things up. Our running game has
improved. I think we have handled the ball pretty well when you consider how
much we do run, our turnovers are human. I think it is solid. Wouldn't put it
as a strength yet. I think it is becoming solid. I think you can get away with
that if you have other things going for you.



Q. Tom, you mentioned great players here in this region. How many do you think
a team needs a singular great player to get to the Final Four and win it all?



COACK IZZO: It has helped when you have a go-to kind of guy. And yet Duke I
think definitely does in Redick. He makes big shots. Redick seems to be the
guy. I am not sure Kentucky has the true go-to guy. I am not sure Michigan
State has a true go-to guy. Utah does. We have gotten to a Final Four a couple
of different ways, one with a star, one with a couple, and one with none. A
lot of ways to skin a cat. In our case, try with some very, very good players
but no true, true go-to guy right now. I think Kentucky is looking at it the
same way.



Q. You mentioned Sweet 16 being so special to your players. Through the year
having a chance to talk to the seniors, obviously special to get here. They
kind of wanted Duke all along in this next game. Is that something they feel
like they also maybe need to get over?



COACH: I don't think they want them because they like playing them. I mean,
Duke is Duke. But I think that you know, there have been so much said about
this group. They have been under so much pressure compared to any other group
that you know it would be one validating statement. Does it make their year?
Not really. Maybe it gives them an opportunity to do something that no one
else at Michigan State has done since '58. Maybe that is what they're looking
at. Not like they are thinking we can beat Duke necessarily. I think they feel
confident if they play, well, we have a good chance. Maybe to try to do
something -- I have always been big on statements like leaving a footprint in
the stand. I guess I never looked at the Duke game as that. That would seem
like a fitting -- not ending, but a fitting part to their career.



Q. You talked about beating the cream of the crop in the regional. Three of
the coaches have national championships under their wings?



COACH: My winning percentage, everybody makes a big deal that we are second.
When you start to look at the numbers and -- and Mike and Tubby have been in a
lot more NCAA tournaments. It is just kind of nice when you respect all the
coaches. I know that sounds like a cliche statement. I think the coaches that
are here, you have great respect for them on and off the court and what they
have done for the game of basketball. Ray is just getting into it. I am on a
lot of boards with Tubby and Mike. I know what they have done over the years.
That is what I hope to do in the future. I think it is great to be in a
regional where there are great coaches and the programs that are in it are
thought of so well. That gives you fans, that gives you media, that gives me a
chance to look next door and see what is going on. And I don't think we're in
awe of that anymore. I understand in reality you do go through that in your
growing stages. I think you are who you hang with. I like hanging with those
guys. If I can be at the Sweet 16 with them, that is good.



Q. You mentioned about being one and two in the NCAA tournament. Do you think
there is common elements that kind of offset you and knock apart from the rest
of your peers in March?



COACH IZZO: Poloks, I guess. I don't know. You know what, I don't. I think I
have heard him speak before that he has good mentors before him. Jud Heathcote
was a great mentor. How you're brought up familywise, I have read his stories
in Chicago and how he was brought up, and I think back to how I was. It really
starts from day one. If you have read any of Tubby's stories, you know the
same thing. Haven't had a chance to read Ray's story. I know the other two
guys when I look back on their lives from day one it was kind of an
underdogged work ethic type of guys. I consider myself in the same boat in
that respect.

_

ROB CAROLLA: I appreciate you joining us. We'll be joined next by Michigan
State student athletes Chris Hill, Paul Davis and Alan Anderson.

_ 

Q. Paul, just wanted to know first of all how you are feeling physically, and
second what have you seen from Williams on film? What do you need to do
against him?



PAUL DAVIS: I feel a hundred percent. I could get used to it. I did check out
the hotel pool last night. I am feeling good. As far as the game is concerned,
Williams speaks for himself. One of the best big men in the country, both ends
of the court. I think on offense we're going to try to go inside and try to
get some foul trouble, and I think our biggest thing on defense with them is
trying to have them catch the ball away from the basket and have them score
over us.



Q. For all of the players, for most of your lives Duke has been the gold
standard of college basketball. When you were in grade school, what were your
impressions of Duke? Were you Duke fans? What were your favorite Duke players?



ALAN ANDERSON: I was a Duke fan. I always like watching Grant Hill, guys like
that. Now, I am with the Spartans.

CHRIS HILL: I was pretty much the same way, growing up in the early 90's I
liked Duke especially because they had two players with my last name. I
thought that was cool. I liked Duke.

PAUL DAVIS: I was different. I was a North Carolina fan. I grew up in a
Michigan State house. I was North Carolina fan. I watched Duke and everybody
in the tournament. It's kind of crazy that we're here playing them.



Q. What are you guys doing better now than you were at times when you were
struggling in the season?



CHRIS HILL: I think it starts on the defensive end. We're checking better on
the perimeter and inside. Obviously that is going to be the biggest key to the
game is how well we can defend their perimeter players because they are so
good. From that point in the season until now, I think we have taken steps to
get better.



Q. Do you feel like you have a mental edge since you played them tough at
home?



PAUL DAVIS: I think that helps. We might have leg up on some people in the
tournament. They are seeing these teams for the first time. I think a plus for
us is that we have seen them once. We did play them well. It was at their
place. So that definitely gives us confidence.



Q. I saw a stat today, you are shooting 63 inside the arc but 19 percent from
beyond the arc. Is that something you know you have to do better against Duke
tomorrow night?



CHRIS HILL: Definitely for myself. I think that is obviously something I have
got to pick up. That is something the team needs me for. I look for that to
happen. I don't think it is necessity that we shoot 50 percent from three or
anything like that. Definitely helps when you knock down some three point
shots. It will be big for us to contain them from the perimeter, clean up
those rebounds and get our transition game going. We need to wear them down
and keep attacking.



Q. Chris, along those lines. This week have you done anything differently?
Have you shot more, shot less? How did you feel shooting the ball today?



CHRIS HILL: I felt better today. I had two nights where I shot for a long
time, tried get honed in and a little bit more one-on-one. One day I took off
from shooting just to kind of clear the mind and get re-set a little bit. I am
feeling better.



Q. How long did you shoot those two nights?



CHRIS HILL: About and hour and a half on top of practice and the shooting that
we do.



Q. I just want to ask, you said something last week about you wanted to play
Duke in this round. Is that correct? If so, why did you want to play Duke?



ALAN ANDERSON: Like I said, we felt good. You know, we went there and played.
We're just a lot better team. A couple of times they had some runs, we didn't
capitalize off that. Like said, these last games we did a good job when we
made turnovers we executed our play better. It just showed our maturity right
now. Just another chance, you know. Like a revenge tour for us. Try to get
back at everybody that got at us.



Q. For any of you guys, the game at Cameron you guys made a comeback at the
end. Did you feel like you are wearing them down towards the end? Do you feel
like this is something you might be able to do tomorrow?



PAUL DAVIS: I think it will be a point of emphasis to do that. I think we need
to use our depth. It helped us in the last game. When you watch the Duke team,
they play six, seven days and, you know, they look kind of fresh at the end of
the game. We are definitely going to use all the depth, all the players we've
got. I think it will help to our advantage.



Q. Chris, Coach Izzo said he would like to tie Redick and Ewing up this time
around. But barring that, do you think you have a better defensive plan and is
that a key in this game?



CHRIS HILL: No question that is the key. That is something. It falls on the
shoulders of the perimeter players on our team to contain them as far as
dribble penetration and contesting all their shots. They have too good of
players that you can say you will stop them. We can. We have the ability to
contain them. It will be a point of emphasis for the game.



Q. The coach mentioned too that part of the reason you guys said you Duke was
to leave a mark, do something no Michigan State team has done before. Is that
important for the seniors to have on their resume before you play your last
game at Michigan State?



ALAN ANDERSON: Beside getting the championship to be the best team, you have
to beat the best team. We feel that Duke is one of those teams. It is always
one of those Final Four elite teams. It is our chance. This is our last chance
to put the footprint in the sand.

CHRIS HILL: I would agree with that. It is like you said, we have talked about
that is an opportunity for this class and this team to do something that no
other Michigan State team in the recent past has done. There is not a lot of
things they didn't do. It is an opportunity for us.



Q. Chris, everyone talks about what Redick does. Can you talk about what
Daniel Ewing does for Duke?



CHRIS HILL: I think that he is maybe their best all around player. Because he
does so much. I can definitely relate to him. He has run the point play lot,
not being really a true point guard. He just makes plays for his team. If they
need big shots, whether it is a three or getting to the basket, he finds way
to get other guys open and makes guys around him better. I have respect for
him and it will be important that we control him.

_

ROB CAROLLA: We have time for one more question for the Michigan State student
athletes.

_ 

Q. Talk about being physical with Redick and Ewing talk and how important that
is.



CHRIS HILL: It is important from the standpoint of they play so many minutes
that being physical with them I think can help wear them down a little bit.
You know, they are great players and they are going to leave it all out on the
court, and so we don't look for that to be a huge edge. We have got to
continue to stay with them at all times and challenge everything they do.

_

ROB CAROLLA: Looks like we're out of time. I appreciate you joining us.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 4, 2005

  

### [Raymond Felton](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14497)

### [Sean May](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16346)

### [Roy Williams](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14130)

  
_ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI_  
  
_

JOHN GERDES: We'll let Coach Williams start with an opening comment, then we
do have questions lined up for the student-athletes first.

_

COACH WILLIAMS: First question or statement I'll make is I'm really not that
much better a coach now than I was about three hours ago, but I surely, surely
thank these youngsters sitting beside of me. It's a great moment for our
staff, not just for me. It's a great moment for our families. It's a great
moment for these youngsters who have these moments and these thrills and these
memories for the rest of their lives. The 2005 team was a team out there
tonight. We were criticized a little bit. It was a bias towards talent. But
our group was a team. Can't say enough about Illinois. They came out in the
second half and just made every single shot. I grabbed Bruce and told him,
I've been in his position, I've been there, I know exactly what he's feeling,
but they've had a remarkable, remarkable year. Tonight we were the better
team. If we played them 10 times, who know what would happen. The NCAA
tournament is only one game and one win and we were fortunate enough to get
it. The City of St. Louis and the NCAA tournament committee were fantastic.
These two rascals sitting beside of me and a few other ones in that locker
room have given me memories that will be with me forever.



Q. Raymond, can you talk about, did you have to talk Coach Williams into
letting you stay in after you got your second foul? What did you see on that
last steal when stole the ball from Luther?



RAYMOND FELTON: I just told Coach Williams I was fine when I got my second
foul. I told him I'd be okay. I was going to play it smart. On the steal
situation, I mean, I just did what Coach Williams been telling me to do all
season: deny the pass. Basically, you know, they threw the ball into my hands.
I just knocked it away and went and got it.



Q. Sean, what was it about Illinois's defense that led you to have the game
you had?



SEAN MAY: You know, they play really, really good defense, especially on the
perimeter. But I think they extend so much, it leaves a wide gap, especially
the double down. We noticed -- you know, coach told us before the game they
normally double from the four, five. We tried to have the four, five feed me.
Our guards did a great job. I got it going. They have just kept feeding me. I
got to the free-throw line a little bit. It was just a great night for our
team.



Q. When it got tight the middle of the second half, you went into Sean six
straight possessions. Were you under orders to do so or was that reading the
situation?



RAYMOND FELTON: Both (laughter). I mean, he was just killing. Why wouldn't I
give it to him. Everybody was screaming, "Get the ball inside to Sean." I
mean, it was the right thing to do.



Q. Sean, you said before that you'd like to win a championship to ease the
criticism on Coach Williams. What does it mean to you to finally do that?



SEAN MAY: It just means that, you know, a lot of you guys out there who try to
pick and find little spots to criticize somebody -- this doesn't mean that
he's a better coach than he was yesterday, like he said. Just this means when
you talk about some of the great coaches out there who have won championships,
you have to say Coach Williams, because he's done it all. For me, it's very
gratifying. For many years down the line, he'll always talk about this 2005
team, how special we were, and the things we did. You know, how through
adversity we stuck together, even when the outside world, you know, didn't
really give us a fair shot.



Q. Sean, you ran off with the basketball in your hands like you wanted to keep
it. Who did you give it to? Now that you're 21, do you think your father will
allow you to toast with champagne?



SEAN MAY: When I grabbed the ball, Ray was a little mad at me. Normally at the
end of games he takes it. I just ran with it. I had no clue. I ran over to
coach and I let it go. Where it went, I have no idea. Somebody probably got a
souvenir, whatever. I don't really care about that. You know, for my 21st
birthday, a very special friend of mine bought me a bottle of Dom Perignon.
We'll have some champagne when we get back.



Q. Who?



SEAN MAY: Wes Miller.



Q. You matched your father's 26 points in a final game and also matched his
most outstanding player in a championship. What does that mean to you what
does that say?



SEAN MAY: For me, it means a lot because I tried to live up to my father's
expectations, even though he hasn't wanted me to. I've tried to do some of the
things he's done, especially the way I carry myself and the type of person I
am. It's very gratifying to know that you set goals for yourself and you're
able to ache ive those goals. When we sit down tonight and talk about the
game, I'll tell him, you might have had 26 points and you might have been a
Final Four MVP, but I had 10 boards, and you didn't do that (laughter), so....
We'll have some fun with that.

COACH WILLIAMS: The other thing on that, do you know who it's going to be most
gratifying to, his father. It's a great, great family.



Q. Sean, along those lines, I don't know if you've had a chance to talk to
your dad yet. If you have, what was that conversation like? If you haven't,
what do you think it's going to be like?



SEAN MAY: I think, you know, my dad, he's not a very emotional person, but he
might get a little bit emotional, I mean, he pulled so much for me and for
this team. I mean, he loves so many guys on this team. He tries to stay back
and tries not to get involved with our team. Sometimes I have to listen to all
our problems. He nitpicks about every little thing. I'm sure he'll be
extremely excited. He probably will get a little bit emotional. I tried to
find him after the game. He ducked off into a corner because he's a little shy
sometimes.



Q. Did your father say anything special to you before the game tonight?



SEAN MAY: No. We talked before every game. This is probably the shortest
conversation we've had. He just said, "Hey, you've been playing long enough,
you know what you have to do. You have one shot. You'll never forget this
moment if you get it done. You guys are good enough to get it done if you play
the way you're supposed to play." He said, "Son, I love you, I'm proud of you,
but go get it done." I'm extremely happy to, you know, finally get this done.



Q. You watched your dad's film a bunch of time. Will you ever watch it again?
When you watch your own film, what particular parts will you keep playing back
over and over again?



SEAN MAY: You know, I don't know if I'll ever watch it again. I've watched it
three times in the last two days because a -- I watched it last night. A
couple guys wanted to watch it today. It came on ESPN Classic, a little clip
of it. When I watch our film, the best thing to me is coach, you know, he said
we need three straight stops, and we got three straight stops, but we didn't
get the ball. We deflected the ball twice out of bounds, Marvin dove for it
once out of bounds. Again, they came down and we got another stop. When Ray
got that steal, that to me was the biggest play in the game because it shifted
the momentum. You could see the look on some of those guys' faces that they
didn't think they had a chance to pull it out.



Q. Raymond, yesterday you talked about it makes you mad when people say you
guys are talented and not a team. What does tonight's championship say? What
does it mean to you?



RAYMOND FELTON: I'm just waiting to hear what everybody got to say at this
point. I'm just waiting to hear it. I mean, we won the national championship.
If everybody is still saying the same thing, at this point I really don't
care. I think we came out tonight and we proved that we are a team, you know,
we are together. You know, who going to win a national championship if they're
not together? We also are talented, I believe in that part, but we also are
together, too, as one.



Q. Ray, kind of relive those last few minutes for us. You hit a big three, you
make the steal, get a big rebound. If you could just talk about the tenseness
of the situation, the kind of things that went through your mind down the
stretch.



RAYMOND FELTON: I mean, it all boils down to what coach has been saying all
season: do whatever it takes to get a win, make it happen. That's what I did.
You know, I got a big key steal. I took a big-time shot. I got a key rebound
at the end. You know, I just made plays. I just went after the ball. It's all
about heart, you know. That's what our team have, we have heart.



Q. What were your thoughts when Illinois tied the score at 70-70?



SEAN MAY: For me, I was very confident in us because we'd been in that
position so many times this year. You know, we would have liked, from
halftime, blow it up to a 20-point game. It's a national championship. It's
not supposed to be easy. We came over to the sideline, coach said, "We're
fine. Everybody look at me, let's do this. We'll get a good shot and we'll go
down and get a stop." You know, we believe in each other, we believe in coach.
That's what we did. You know, we got either a shot or Raymond hit a big shot
coming out of the timeout. We came down and got three straight stops. They
ended up getting the ball back off all those stops. And we did it again. That
just shows the toughness of this team, the mental approach we have. You know,
we're just blessed right now to be in the position that we're in.

RAYMOND FELTON: I can't say it no better. Sean summed it up. We just kept our
poise and we made plays. We stopped them on the defensive end and we made
plays and we hit some key free-throws at the end.

_

JOHN GERDES: Raymond, Sean, thank you very much. Congratulations.

_ 

Q. Coach, you're up three with 25 seconds left, 30-second timeout, did you
consider at all giving their propensity for the three-point shot, did you
consider fouling in that situation? What went through your mind in that
timeout?



COACH WILLIAMS: We did talk about switching every screen so they wouldn't get
an open look at three. If you felt uncomfortable that you were trailing
somebody on the dribble after he crossed the 10-second line, you could foul.
With 25 seconds to go, you know, that's a lot of time. We didn't care about
fouling immediately by that point. Now, when it was nine seconds to go or
something like that, we did. We even told them to foul. We didn't want it to
be an intentional foul. The shot he got at that point wasn't a very good shot.
But we did talk about it during the huddle, yes.



Q. You mentioned this being a team victory rather than a talent victory. You
held them without a score for the last 2:37. Does that kind of illustrate your
point?



COACH WILLIAMS: I think, you know, our defense, I've picked on our defense
quite a bit myself. But it was really picked on since Syracuse last weekend.
You know, people said some very negative things, that we didn't guard, we
didn't do this, we didn't do that. We used that in some ways to motivate our
team. But the biggest thing we did, we went back to work for a couple of days
at practice. We did, we called it the pit. We went into the practice gym. I
took the rims off. We practiced just our defensive drills, our defensive
stations for 35 minutes both days. The one thing that I've bragged on and felt
so good about with this team is how tough we have been. You can go back to the
Duke, last game in the regular season. I promised the kids inside the four-
minute timeout we would have a chance to win if they would just commit
themselves to doing their job. Sean mentioned one of the timeouts today. I
said, "We're fine." They made about five or six in a row. Our guys came over.
I didn't really like the look on their face. It looked like they were about to
feel sorry for themselves or panic, you put which word you want to in there. I
told them we were going to be fine. That was just four minutes. That we were
still going to be there if they committed themselves again. Our toughness, our
defensive plays being really good at times, other times it hasn't been very
good. I think the motivating thing was the fact that we had a chance to play
for the national championship, and we didn't care what other people said, we
wanted it for ourselves.



Q. Did Raymond have to talk you into keeping him in after the second foul? Did
you think about taking him out? I assume the zone was at least in part to
protect him.



COACH WILLIAMS: The zone was definitely just to buy some time and protect
Raymond. He just made one statement. He said, "Coach, I'll be all right." I
said, "Yeah, I've heard that before." That kind of thing. I did think that the
mistakes and the fouls he's made in this tournament play has taught him a
lesson. I felt pretty comfortable in putting him back in with about six or
something, I took him out again because it looked like he was getting a little
bit tired. I think sometimes you'll make silly fouls just because you're
getting tired. I took him out at that point just to give him a quick breather.
Put him back in, and I think we got it inside two minutes before he got his
third. But when I see Raymond Felton, I just see one big heart, and the
toughness, you know, to make the free-throws, make the plays. But he's a tough
little rascal.



Q. You talked in the past about how painful it was to kind of watch from afar
a few years ago when this program slipped so far from the status it enjoyed
for so long. What does winning this national championship mean, not just for
this team but for North Carolina basketball?



COACH WILLIAMS: Well, it means a lot. There's no question there. Michael
Jordan and Coach Smith both came in the locker room. I grabbed them and said,
"These guys and Phil Ford, a lot of other people, made North Carolina
basketball. But you guys are going to be a huge part of it for the rest of
your lives." You know, I did feel so badly for what happened a couple years
ago. I felt badly for Matt Doherty. Let's not forget he's the guy who
recruited most of these guys, with the exception for Marvin and Quentin.
Jackie and Jawad and Melvin for sticking with it, after starting 8-20. To me
it means more for those kids than it does anything that can be said about our
program.



Q. I know you haven't had a lot of time to think, but does winning tonight
make you feel better or more comfortable about your decision to leave Kansas?



COACH WILLIAMS: You know, I've always been about people. I felt great when
we've had at least four different Kansas players call me and say they were
with us. Before I left the hotel, Nick Collison's dad called. That's 15 great
years of my life. It will always be 15 great years. It will never be less
emotional than it was because of my love for those kids. It was just off the
court that wasn't very pleasant that last year and a half or so. But with each
and every year, because the players are gone, those emotions will lessen
because I don't have the players there. But 15 years from now, the University
of Kansas will be a truly, truly special place to me. Our chancellor, James
Moeser told me, it's not immoral to love two institutions, and I do that. The
other thing is I had a lot of Kansas friends that are here with me these last
three or four days, had dinner with a bunch of them last night. They said, Win
or lose, we're with you. I'm very fortunate that I got some friends like that.



Q. Two years ago you had a really hard loss and a really hard decision to
make. Can you talk about how difficult the last two years of your life have
been, how much travel you've had, and what the end of it is like.



COACH WILLIAMS: Well, the end is I didn't have to curse during an interview
tonight like I did a couple of years ago (laughter). I didn't have to say
anything like that. Yeah, I mean, it's been a difficult two years. But, gosh,
how lucky can you be? It hasn't been the smoothest in the world. But, you
know, my secretary's got a three-year-old little boy that's got acute
leukemia. My sister's not feeling really good. There's a lot of people that
have a lot of difficult situations. Mine is just emotional because I'm an
emotional person. I'm doing, as I said the other day, exactly what I want to
do with my life. I've got a wonderful family. I was able to go over and hug
Wanda and Scott and Kimberly. I've got a lot of people that really, really do
like Roy Williams. Even saying the last couple years have been difficult, you
know, it's only been difficult because of how emotional I am.



Q. 40 out of their 70 shots tonight were three-point attempts. They only got
to the line six times. Can you talk about why you guys were so effective
keeping them from penetrating, getting into the paint?



COACH WILLIAMS: We know they like to shoot threes. I always felt like to win a
national championship you've got to establish an inside game. But they almost
made me wrong on that one. There's no question about it. I like balance. I
like to have the basketball inside, to get the other team in foul trouble. I
think it helped us tonight, when Augustine fouled out, they had a couple guys
with four, because Sean can really get some people in foul trouble. That's the
way I coach. That's North Carolina basketball. For 15 years it was Kansas
basketball. Coach Smith taught me one way, to have balance with inside play
and outside. We did challenge our guys defensively to control the dribble
penetration because they like to penetrate just to pitch to shoot more threes.
But early in the second half, they surely made a bunch of 'em.



Q. After the way your team played defense in the first half, when Illinois
started to explode offensively in the second, how much did that worry you
about your team's performance?



COACH WILLIAMS: Well, I mean, you worry about that possession. But I don't sit
back and say, "Oh, gosh, we're going to lose." You're just trying to do the
best job you can do on that possession. They were making some big-time shots.
They didn't go 37-1 by being lucky. We wanted to continue running, continue
pushing, and maybe at the end of the game they might not have their legs; they
might miss some of those shots. That to me is the reason, when they made them
early in the second half, I told our guys, "Hey, it's just four minutes. I
think we lost the first four minutes of the game, too." We lost the first four
minutes of the second half, but I told our guys that was just part of the
game.



Q. What was your first emotion as the final seconds ticked off you and knew
you won? Did Coach Smith say anything to you in the locker room?



COACH WILLIAMS: You know, my first emotion, when they missed it, Sean came up
with the ball, he's running at me, I just wanted to hug that big rascal as
long as I could hug him. Then I wanted to get with my assistant coaches. You
know, it's a nice feeling. But I really mean it, I don't know that I'm that
better a coach. It is pleasant now that next year you'll be talking about how
many hole-in-ones I've had or something like that. But that was a special
moment. And I think in really truly special moments, most people don't think
really clearly. Second part of your question I forget already.



Q. Coach Smith.



COACH WILLIAMS: Coach Smith. I don't call him his first name. He'll be Coach
Smith my entire life. I thanked him. He said, "Don't thank me. This is yours.
I'm so happy for you and these players." It was special to have Doug Moe there
and George Karl and Bill Chamberlain who was one of my teammates on the
freshman team in 1969. He's one of the guys that really knows I wasn't a good
player. Special having Michael there. Michael's two sons, to be able to say
hello to them in the locker room. That's about it.



Q. Does winning a national championship feel as good or maybe even better than
you anticipated? Do you feel like there is a load off your shoulders now?



COACH WILLIAMS: I really don't feel like there's a load off my shoulders
except I don't have answer that question. Does it feel as good or better than
I thought? I never let myself think that far ahead to have any idea of what it
was supposed to feel like. But I did grab Jackie and Melvin and Jawad at one
point and hugged the three of them together. They had just finished praying. I
thanked them for letting me be part of the perseverance and toughness they
had.



Q. While your players were still celebrating on the podium, you went into the
bleachers with your family. Could you describe the moment.



COACH WILLIAMS: Probably not. You know, a lot of people have said, including
one guy when I walked out tonight, said, "Roy, you're going to be crying
tonight." I've had people make fun of that. But not one sucker's ever come up
to my face and made fun of it, I can tell you that. I am emotional. When I got
Wanda and Scott and Kimberly, I hugged them. All of us had tears in our eyes
because they know how much it means to me, they know how hard I worked. I know
how much they sacrifice. I've got a family that I truly love and feel very
fortunate. It's a nice moment to share with them.



Q. Do you know, how does it feel to have a national championship underneath
your belt?



COACH WILLIAMS: Do I know how it feels?



Q. Yes.



COACH WILLIAMS: You know, the only negative thing that I can think of us that
Dick has already talked about there's going to be some kind of celebration
tomorrow when we get back. I really wanted to go to the first tee (laughter).
I did tell the guys in the locker room that we had a reunion last year, and I
brought all the former players back, and the '57 team that won the national
championship, I think four, if I'm not mistaken, I know four, maybe all five
starters came back from that team. I told them in the locker room before the
game that, "You have a chance to do something tonight that 48 years later,"
just like now is 48 years later from the '57 group, "will be special to you
and everybody in this locker room will be special to you. Let's go play."



Q. Coach, you've been in Coach Weber's shoes before. Your thoughts on the year
he's been through, what he's done, what he's been able to accomplish.



COACH WILLIAMS: It's a phenomenal year. College basketball, the NCAA
tournament, is not kind because one loss and you're done. It's great for the
fans, but it's horrible for the coaches. Bruce losing his mom like that,
that's difficult. You know, I've lost my mom, lost my dad last summer. But
Bruce Weber has been through a heck of a lot this year. Bruce Weber's a
fantastic coach and a fantastic person.



Q. Interested in your reaction, your national association of basketball
college colleagues were pretty much unanimous, quoted in the media, saying
they were pulling for you, people like Jim Boeheim and others were really
pulling for you to win a national championship. You got to feel awfully good
that you have such a wide amount of respect amongst your colleagues.



COACH WILLIAMS: I do feel better about that than anything I do except for my
family. I love coaching. My high school coach was the person that I wanted to
be like. To see Jimmy Boeheim and Jimmy Calhoun, Hubie Brown, being announced
they were in the Hall of Fame this morning, I got a chance to see them, I went
over with Raymond for the Bob Cousy award. I have a lot of friends in coaching
who have told me those kinds of things, and it does mean a great deal to me. I
am pretty dang corny. I can cry at the drop of a hat. I love coaching and
coaches. I know what coaches go through. Two years ago, Jimmy's Syracuse team
beat my Kansas team. The thing I said to him when we hugged is, "I'm very
happy for you." In '91, Mike Krzyzewski had never won one, and they beat us. I
remember that moment like it was yesterday, too, because when I hugged Mike, I
said, "I'm very happy for you." I do appreciate those thoughts.



Q. Your high school coach, Buddy Baldwin, was crying tears of joy after the
game. Can you tell me what that means for you?



COACH WILLIAMS: Well, you're talking about a guy that was the first person to
give me confidence, the first person to make me feel like I could be somebody,
the first person that truly helped me establish some goals. He wanted me to go
to North Carolina. He knew I wanted to coach, and he wanted me to go and try
to play. If I couldn't play, at least be around and watch Coach Smith. He was
the first guy to ever get me on a golf course. My mom and dad were split when
I was very young. Coach Baldwin was like a father big to me. Dean Smith and
Buddy Baldwin are the best two influences I've ever had. I will never be as
good as either one of them, but I do try. I had Coach Baldwin with me in '91,
'93, 2002, 2003, at every Final Four. In '93 I stayed in New Orleans and
watched North Carolina win it on Monday night. I was sitting with him. He
turned around to me at that point and said, "I'm going to be sitting there one
night when you win one." So it's good (tearing up).



Q. Like you said a couple times tonight, a pretty emotional guy, we've seen
you shedding tears on the podium. You managed to hold it in tonight after such
a momentous occasion. How is that?



COACH WILLIAMS: Toughest part was talking about Coach Baldwin and going to see
my family. I think one thing is that when I have been so emotional after the
losses, it's because I felt that I let those kids down. You know, rightly or
wrongly, I feel like there's always something I could have done better. I also
had those emotions because I knew some of those kids that I truly loved I
wasn't going to coach again. Tonight I probably let them down anyway, but
they're not going to remember that. So that's part of it. Then the other thing
is that they're going to be part of my life forever, and this moment will be
something I'll share with them.



Q. No one works harder at recruiting than you do in terms of your travel. I
understand working personally on the top two or three recruits yourself. Have
you had time before the game or now to think about the irony of how hard you
worked to construct your team in your image at Kansas, but then you win it now
with a team, besides Marvin, that you basically inherited? Do you see irony in
that?



COACH WILLIAMS: Guy stopped me on the street a couple nights ago and -- I've
heard one time -- I've heard this before, he said it to me, "Good coaches can
take his'n and beat you with your'n. If he can take your'n and beat you with
his'n, you know, that's pretty impressive." I stood there because I heard it
before, but I wanted to make sure I got it right, still don't know I did. Joe
Holladay, Steve Robinson, CB McGrath and Jerod Haase have been sensational in
putting this thing together. The kids, I'm not trying to be phoney or
anything, but the kids had to buy into it and had to accept it. You know,
Wednesday morning, I'm going to be on the road recruiting because you can go
recruiting at 8:00. But I also am going to sit back and understand that these
guys, my assistants, this staff and the kids really bought into everything we
tried to do. We're 33-4. Again, I feel for Matt Doherty, I really do. If Matt
was right there, I would want him to know that this was special and I would
give Matt Doherty a big hug. Matt Doherty needs to be back in coaching, too.

_

JOHN GERDES: Coach, thank you very much. Congratulations.

_

COACH WILLIAMS: Thanks, guys.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA MEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+MEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 4, 2005

  

### [Dee Brown](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16348)

### [Luther Head](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15065)

### [Bruce Weber](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14492)

### [Deron Williams](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16341)

  
_ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI_  
  
_

JOHN GERDES: We're now joined by Illinois. Again, we'll ask Coach Weber to
make an opening statement. We do have four questions lined up for the student-
athletes first. Coach Weber.

_

COACH WEBER: Not much you can say. We had a tremendous year. It was just a
special journey. I didn't think we fought very hard in the first half. They
played with a lot more urgency. We lost our poise down the stretch in the
first half. Probably cost us because now you have such a margin to come back.
You know, came back valiantly, played our hearts out second half. Told the
kids they shouldn't hang their head. But we looked at Michigan State stats. If
you shoot the ball 70 times, you're going to be in trouble. We shot 70, 40
threes. We had some chances down the stretch, just couldn't get it done. It's
a tremendous game, 1 and 2, we lived up to it. Went down to the last couple
possessions. They had probably more inside threat with May than we had, and it
made the difference in the game.



Q. Deron, I know this is hard to do on short notice, but do you think there
will come a time that you will look back at this year finally and not remember
this game so much? Can you remember the season as a success?



DERON WILLIAMS: I mean, I already think it's a success, you know. Our goal was
to get to the Final Four, compete for the national championship. We did that.
It just leaves a bad taste in your mouth not getting to cut down the nets, you
know, not getting to, you know, see the seniors go out with a bang like we
wanted them to.



Q. Luther, you did so much to get your team back into this ballgame, I think
13 points in the second half. When you took that shot about 12 seconds left,
what did it look like, what did it feel like? When you saw the ball bounce
that high and hit the backboard, what were your emotions?



LUTHER HEAD: It was a shot, I was wide open. Coach ran a great play. Got me
open, had a great look. Just missed it.



Q. Luther, as a senior, how would you like to remember this basketball season?



LUTHER HEAD: As we was a tough team, a team that fought their heart out each
and every game, never quit. We just stayed a family throughout the season, no
matter what happened.



Q. At the end of the game when you went over and sat on the Tar Heels bench,
what was going through your mind in those minutes?



LUTHER HEAD: That we just lost. We didn't win the national championship.
Something that me and my whole team wanted to do badly. Just left a bad taste
in your mouth. It hurt.



Q. Can any of you talk about if you were at all surprised when Carolina left
Felton in with two fouls in the first half? Bruce, can you also respond to
that?



DERON WILLIAMS: I think he's a critical part of the offense. In a game of this
magnitude, it's the final game of the season. You got to leave him out there.
He's got to be out there on the floor because he controls their offense.



Q. Dee, obviously the emotions you went through this year, the way this ended,
when do you start to allow yourself thinking about how you can get at it and
do it next year? How long does it take to do that?



DEE BROWN: I say, you know, kind of disappointed. Like I say, we got some
young, good talent on our team. I think Coach Weber will do a great job of
getting us focused the next couple weeks.



Q. Dee, will the first half and the fact they jumped out on you, is that going
to stick with you for a while, a "what if" thing you play in your head?



DEE BROWN: Like I said, credit my teammates, we came out in the second half
and fought like we should have. Unfortunately, they got out to a big lead,
played so well in the first half. Just credit them guys to coming out and
playing great basketball in the first half. We didn't really come out shooting
the ball well and playing great basketball.



Q. Can you talk about that possession where you had the three chances, and
that final turnover when Felton stole the ball?



LUTHER HEAD: It was a play. I thought I saw somebody open who wasn't open. I
passed the ball, they got a steal. As far as the shots, I just missed them.

_

JOHN GERDES: Dee, Luther, Deron, thank you very much for coming down. We'll
take questions for Coach Weber. I don't know if you can address that one
question that was asked.

_

COACH WEBER: What we've done all year, with Deron, like he said, he's their
quarterback. Roy, you figure that he's a smart player. They went zone quite a
few possessions to kind of protect him. You know, it's like those guys said,
it's the last game of the year. You got to have your guy in there as much as
you can.



Q. Coach, as a whole, how will you assess this basketball season?



COACH WEBER: Tremendous. I mean, what else can you say? It goes down in
history. Not only Illinois history, NCAA history. Tied the most wins ever, No.
1 for all the time. You get to the championship game. You know, I mean, if
you're not happy with this, I feel sorry for you, because life ain't getting
better.



Q. What are you going to remember most? You got a lot of highlights this
season.



COACH WEBER: Oh, just the whole thing. Just the whole journey. It was just so
much fun. You know, last night, I kind of cried in front of the team because
the last meeting, you don't want it to end. We knew it's going to be the last
game. There were no more ballgames. Sad it's over. You know, but you're not
sad how we played. I mean, we went down fighting, battling, had chances. You
know, it's too bad James didn't get to play. You know, there's a big
discrepancy on free-throws. But part of that's, you know -- you know, we shot
too many threes. I think the big stat is we have 17 offensive rebounds, and we
only -- they have more second-chance points than we do. You know, we just
didn't finish plays first half. Could have finished some plays.



Q. One of the toughest things I would imagine for a coach to do is to somehow
console one of your star players who doesn't get that game winning or game
tying shot. What did you say and do for Luther?



COACH WEBER: I just hugged all the seniors. Luther got us back in the game, as
somebody said. I hugged him, cried. He cried. I mean, it's just -- he's come
so far. Couldn't be more proud of a kid. All those seniors. Everyone talks
about the juniors, but the seniors are guys that made our team. You know,
Luther, you got to give credit to Felton, he makes a great steal, hits a big
step-back three. You know, they made a couple plays down the stretch, and we
didn't. We put some pressure on them and they stepped up.



Q. When it got close, a lot of people thought that you guys would get it done,
you found ways when it got close. Were you thinking that when it got to 70-70?



COACH WEBER: We had shots. You know, we had open shots. You know, but our kids
played theirselves to exhaustion. You shoot all those threes, you maybe don't
have legs at the end. If one those goes, now the pressure's on them. We just
never got it to, you know, a tie -- but never could get it over the hump.
Somebody said we had three chances maybe to take the lead. We just never got
it done. You know, in retrospect, maybe go inside. We just didn't get some
inside looks. But, you know, James is the guy. Didn't have a great Final Four.
I'm sure he's not going to be, you know, remembered -- he's not going to have
great memories of St. Louis.



Q. You said on television that the guys didn't come out with much fight in the
first half, but had a lot of fight in the second half.



COACH WEBER: Yes.



Q. Looking back, was there anything that you saw in the locker room before the
game or anything that would have indicated that to you?



COACH WEBER: No difference. They just had a sense of urgency. We got on our
heels. We missed some shots. They got the loose balls. We had a lot of
deflections. Our play-hard chart was in the 20s at halftime. We were getting
deflections, but they were getting the loose balls. Then we started missing
some shots, and got a little stagnant. They could go to May. Williams hits
some big threes for them in the first half. You know, it's just -- you knew
May would get stuff. You knew Felton would be important. But we couldn't let
somebody else have a huge game. McCants and Williams, you know, have pretty
good games. That's probably the difference in it.



Q. If you could just talk more about what Felton and May did for them tonight.
It seemed like whenever it got to be a pressure situation, those two came
through for them.



COACH WEBER: You know, May made tremendous strides in high school. Roy has
done a great job with him, got him in shape. He has a tremendous desire to
win. You know, he wanted to win a national championship. There's no doubt. He
played like it the whole tournament. Played with a sense of urgency. He's
tough to defend. We tried everything. I wasn't real happy with some of the
things that happened out there. But, you know, he's a great player. Felton's a
great player. He makes plays. He made the plays down the stretch.



Q. Coach Williams has been in your position tonight a lot of times. Did you
get a chance to talk to him?



COACH WEBER: Just for a minute. They were celebrating. He apologized for
celebrating. Shoot, they should celebrate. That's part of it. Won the national
championship. Tremendous coach. Tremendous for the game. One of the good guys
in the business. I'm very happy. I always have wanted him to win a national
championship; obviously not tonight. He's somebody to cheer for.



Q. You have some guys, Dee and Deron specifically, NBA futures. What role will
you play in that? When will you sit down and talk to them?



COACH WEBER: We've talked all year. You know, we'll communicate here probably
in the next couple days. I got to go recruiting Wednesday. Got to go to
Atlanta for an award on Friday, then to LA for Wooden banquet on Saturday.
Hopefully get with them before the banquet and talk about what's going on.



Q. The fans, the last couple months.



COACH WEBER: Unbelievable. Unbelievable. You know, just can't beat it. I hope
they appreciate the journey. You know, obviously we had an advantage tonight
with the crowd. You know, that even makes their win I think even more
impressive. But I think they got us back into it. It got loud. We played off
of the energy, but we just didn't have enough down the stretch.



Q. You were down 15 a couple times in the second half. The Arizona comeback is
now legendary. What did you say to them?



COACH WEBER: We just talked about going down fighting. This is a game they're
going to remember the rest of their life. If you go down -- the regret that
you would have is if you didn't fight. I say "fight," battle, play hard, don't
play not to lose, don't play timid. You know, we thought we got it to the
four-minute timeout, we've been in this spot a lot of times, shut people down.
We had chances; we just didn't come up with the plays this time and they did.
You know, tremendous win for them. Feel good for Coach Williams and their
group. But I also feel great about our guys. I mean, it's just been a blast.
Sad that it's over.



Q. You've obviously got a great team. You had a wonderful season. If you
would, just assess North Carolina's team.



COACH WEBER: Oh, they're a tremendous team. They got great balance. They got
the inside-outside threat. They push it. You know, Roy's one of the best in
the business. You know, both our clubs, all year, I think, you know, you got
to appreciate that we got here. I talked yesterday about the basketball gods
looked down upon college basketball. They got us here. I think we put on a
good show. But, you know, we just didn't have enough to get over the hump.

_

JOHN GERDES: Thank you, coach. Congratulations on an outstanding season.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

