|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 5, 2005

  

### [Kristin Haynie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15312)

### [Joanne P. McCallie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14490)

### [Kelli Roehrig](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16351)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: As before, we will go with an opening statement from the coach
and then I ask you please to direct your questions to the players so that we
can release them back to the open locker room period.

_

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I would like to compliment Baylor. I thought Baylor
played a terrific basketball game. I really think the outside shooting of
Niemann in the first half was really critical to just the overall confidence
and opening up the inside and then I thought their post players just did a
great job. Basically that's the story of the game. Three players for them
really doing outstanding work. I think for our game it wasn't a great game for
us. Obviously we didn't play well. We didn't rebound. There's a lot of things
we didn't do. But I hate to sit up here as a coach and talk about what we
didn't do. I think it's important in this situation to talk about that a team
played great and Baylor played great. And that's just what happens. Baylor
played super, we played average, and you really can't do that at this level,
that's just the bottom line.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the players, please.

_ 

Q. For either Kelli or for Kristin. The trademark of your tournament run has
always been strong second halves. You've had them in every game. What was
Baylor able to neutralize tonight?



KELLI ROEHRIG: Well, they out-rebounded us 45 to 22, and that's it alone.



Q. Kelli, if you would, now that you faced Baylor's post players, just what
made them so difficult for you tonight?



KELLI ROEHRIG: They're two very great post players. They did an excellent job
in the paint. They -- we just didn't box out. We didn't shot contest in the
paint. They played -- we gave them way too many open looks inside.



Q. For either of the players, from the podium yesterday or the day before the
Baylor players were very complimentary of your team, your teamwork, your
sharing the ball and how hard you played. But each one in a conversation would
drop in, I don't think they're as athletic as we are. Do you think that was a
factor tonight?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Definitely not. We're two great athletic teams. We're very
good teams and like everyone's been saying, it was a rebounding -- we weren't
disciplined enough to box them out. We knew they were tall and they could
jump.



Q. Kelli, all season long especially in the tournament you guys had four
double digit scores, today there was two. How tough was that and how much of a
factor do you think that was?



KELLI ROEHRIG: I think that was a big factor. Lindsay held her own, they did
unbelievable, everything they could. There was slack in the post area. We
didn't really hold our own and I mean we needed to step up.



Q. Kristin, it might be difficult to have to accept the loss tonight, but at
the same time can you and your teammates still realize what you have
accomplished this year and what you've done for Michigan State basketball?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Definitely. This loss is going to hurt, you know, but looking
back at our season we did some big things. We did a lot for the program.
Overall it was a great season for us.



Q. Kristin, can you talk about how you think Michigan State basketball will be
changed now because of this run and other teams right now in women's
basketball that are sitting here looking at y'all and Baylor, what kind of
confidence that may give them to make it to this stage?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: It was a great game. Michigan State and Baylor making it to
the finals. That says a lot about women's basketball. And it's on the rise.
This program is going to keep going on the rise, getting good recruits coming
in and there's going to be the same old Michigan State basketball. Hard, blue
collar workers.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to release these girls back to the open locker room
period. Questions for the Coach.

_ 

Q. If you could just talk about the play of Kristin and Lindsay together and
how the brief run that you did make late in the first half, early in the
second, what they did to spark that?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: They are great competitors. They just attacked more,
attacking the basket more. Just being very, very aggressive like they can be.
The two of them have done a terrific job for us. And they have been a terrific
back court all year long. 33 is a big -- a lot of wins. And a lot of that had
to do with the way our back court handled things.



Q. That Niemann girl, how did she get so open so often?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: If you look at the film the kid is three feet off
the line. She hit great shots. You have to give her credit for that. We
definitely had her scouted and ready to in face contest her, but she hit a
couple of threes that were unbelievable. I still felt that we were in great
shape in the second half, despite our shooting. But we just didn't pull
together the energy that we had shown against, for example, like Tennessee. We
just didn't pull together the energy necessary to come down. We were down nine
at one point. And we were ready to go and just a few bad decisions here or
there kind of helped them notch it back up again.



Q. Could you talk a little bit about the play of Steffanie and Sophia and what
they did to you. It seemed like you were throwing a lot of players at them and
they just kept running away?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: They were just great together. They're two terrific
post players. I think the interesting thing about them is they don't really
have to use the low block at all. They can, what I call free flow. They can go
anywhere. So they will hit shots from the high post, the mid post, they will
step out and make it much more harder to double, much harder to dig at them
because they're constantly moving. I just thought they were beautiful. I
caught myself watching them on occasion and said I better stop that and get
back to coaching the game. They just really made some great shots and I really
want to get back to Niemann, I think she was the whole key to this game. I
think if you take number 51 off the floor, it's a whole different game. She
was definitely the X factor.



Q. Score notwithstanding, did perhaps Baylor have the best combination of
rebounding and shooting that y'all faced in the tournament?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: They had -- well, I think that we were a step slow.
You have to remember, we played Tennessee, the most physical team around. And
came back from 16 points down. We just -- nobody was moving like they could
move. And that was a big problem against a nice athletic team like Baylor. I
just think they played very, very well. They played great and we did not match
that and I'm sorry, it's too bad it wasn't a more exciting game. It really was
disingenuous to the Final Four in terms of those semi final games.



Q. I think people are learning more about Sophia Young, what were your
impressions about her athleticism and everything?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: She's just so graceful. She's a beautiful, just
beautiful student-athlete, the way she moves and that. She's a great player. I
think the best four player or if you want to call her a four player, that we
have seen all year. That kid's an All-American.



Q. Along with the rebounding, did this just largely come down to the fact that
they had three players go off and you had two?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yeah, and they didn't really go off. If Lindsay
Bowen goes off it's 33 points like she did against TCU or Notre Dame. We
didn't have anybody go off and I don't think we should pretend that we did; we
didn't. And yes, they had, when I say "go off," yeah, I mean they had three
players that really were very, very impressive. Their shooting percentages
speak for themselves. So our defense did not do enough to take them out of
their tempo and obviously that's very disappointing.



Q. A little bit along those same lines, the one thing that seemed like you
struggled even when you were playing very, very well since the beginning of
the Big-10 tournament is rebounding. Was there a little bit of a thing like,
like against an athletic team like this that you were a little concerned that
if we don't take care of the fundamentals totally we're really, really going
to get hurt in this area tonight?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yes, we understand the value of rebounding. We were
upset about the Big-10 tournament, because we won without rebounding. And
that's never a good thing in preparation for the NCAA tournament. And I
thought that that hurt us early in the NCAA tournament when we didn't play
that great. I thought it hurt us, because our kids found a way to win without
rebounding. And that hurt us against USC, that hurt us bad. But then we were
able to get out of that and for the rest of the ride really get after the
rebounds, and you saw Tennessee, we didn't do a great job and here we didn't.
It's obviously been something that's been troublesome and something we need to
work on.



Q. All year the talk's been about you guys match-up zone and how effective
it's been; what did Baylor do that was able to really penetrate and get the
kicks that other teams may not have been able to do during the year?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, again it goes back to their post play. Nobody
in the country had two posts like them, pure and simple.



Q. Can you talk about what this season did for your program, the run
notwithstanding this last game, and at the end it seemed like you guys kind of
hovered around; did you watch their celebration or kind of have a moment or
something to remember or were you trying to hang around to shake their hand?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Just wanted to shake their hands. Obviously just
very impressed with what they did tonight and, yeah, we were just trying to
shake hands and allow them to have the floor for their celebration. In terms
of our program, it's hard to judge right now. None of us have read a paper or
answered our cell phones in three weeks. We have lived in a bubble world and I
guess it's back to the dog, it's back to normal life, which is probably a
very, very good thing. And in terms of the program for Michigan State, we're
very proud to represent Michigan State. We're very proud to have women's
basketball be something special. These women have collected a lot of hardware
this season and they are champions and they have been champions all season
long. And I just have the utmost respect for them and it goes down as the
greatest season ever for Michigan State women's basketball. And that's
something we're going to be very proud about.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach, thank you very much for joining us and congratulations
again on a great season.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 5, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Emily Niemann](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16352)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Once again, we'll take questions for the student-athletes after
an opening statement from the Coach.

_

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Wow, we're national champions. First basketball
national championship for the Big 12, men or women. First for women's
basketball at Baylor. And what a performance it was. I thought rebounding was
outstanding for us. Looking at the stats, that's the most we have out-
rebounded anybody all year. And to limit them to just three offensive rebounds
and make sure they only got one look at the basket, I was very proud of our
defense. I told the team before the game, during half-time and throughout the
course of the playoffs, your defense will win you a national championship.
Your defense will win you a national championship. And it was pretty special
again tonight.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the players, please.

_ 

Q. Emily, you have another pretty good athlete in your family; was he here
tonight or have you heard from him this week?



EMILY NIEMANN: I got a text message, yeah. I'm sure I got voice mail waiting
on me too. He is actually in spring training camp right now at Tampa Bay, so
he didn't make it but I'm sure he's by a TV, yeah.



Q. Emily, how much were you feeling it tonight?



EMILY NIEMANN: I was feeling good tonight. As always, I don't have to say this
just to say it but my teammates did a great job of getting me a ball in great
spots. Chelsea hit a great screen for me to take it into the locker room for
half-time and they just do a great job of making things easy on me when I can
just catch and shoot then I'm comfortable and I was feeling good tonight.



Q. Sophia, does this make, to your right, does this make the move to the
United States, make everything worthwhile, is this what you wanted? What kind
of player are you going to be once you actually figure out how to play the
game?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Yeah, this actually makes everything worthwhile. I feel like I'm
living my dream and I don't know what kind of player I'll be. Hopefully I'll
just grow up to develop into a better player.



Q. Sophia and Steffanie, could you talk a little bit about the confidence that
Emily's early shots gave you when she hit like four three's in a row.



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: That's big time. We needed that to spread the floor with
their zone and everything so she just, I told her to kept shooting and she
kept knocking it down.

SOPHIA YOUNG: When Emily hit that first shot I was like, "oh, yeah, she's on,"
you know. I was very excited that she came in. She knocked down those two big
threes for us and that just gave us a lot of momentum into the game and we
knew that she was going to be hot for the rest of the night too. Like
Steffanie said, we told her to keep shooting because she was hot.



Q. For Steffanie, judging by the score it looked like the game plan came
together perfectly for y'all. Was it as easy as it looked out there?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: No, one of the things that is coach's emphasis is defense
and we just really tried to buckle down and I thought our defense was great.
We let a couple buckets go at the end of the first half but it was all about
defense and that helped us create some transition offense.



Q. For Steffanie and Emily, you two might have - "struggled" might be a little
strong - but maybe had the least type of performance that you were used to of
anyone in the rotation. Can you talk about how each of you had managed to stay
confident throughout this to play so well tonight?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: It's just something that you just have to try to stay
positive and confident and if you don't do as well one night try to come back
the next night. And if you can't do it, just do whatever you can to help your
team, rebound, play defense, whatever. You just got to keep confident and wait
your turn and keep shooting and it will finally fall in and if it does, that's
great.

EMILY NIEMANN: Yeah, I would just like to add something to that, that while
Stef and I might not have been scoring as much as we're used to and our team
is used to us doing, we were playing good basketball. Both of us had good
defense, solid. There's other things than scoring and I know that I've seen
that throughout the year from Stef and she was a great senior for us, a great
leader all the way through it and we wouldn't be here without it regardless of
how many points she scored. As far as my struggling, it's just part of it.
Slumps, shooters have them and you got to keep shooting the ball. If I would
have quit or given up then I wouldn't have had a night like I did tonight. And
you just got to plug through it.



Q. Emily, do you think that you guys winning the national championship now
there are a lot of teams saying, hey, it is possible, we can make it there?



EMILY NIEMANN: Yeah, I think it's a huge, just a compliment to the way the
women's game has come that you don't have just 20 players in the country, at
the Connecticut's and Tennessees, but you have lots of great players all over
the country and they're going to different schools and it's making a the game
a lot of fun to watch and a lot of fun to be a part of.



Q. Steffanie and Sophia, 45-22 rebounding edge; can you talk about some of
them were tipped rebounds where somebody else would get them; were y'all
trying to keep the ball active sometimes?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I thought it was a great team effort. I think a couple
times somebody would tip the ball and somebody would come and get it. People
running down just rebounds, long rebounds, so rebounding is always the
emphasis for us every game. One thing we tried to do is make sure that they,
the defensive end, make sure it was won and done so they didn't get second
chance points. So just tried to crash hard.

SOPHIA YOUNG: I think that they're a team that's pretty hard to get around to
so more than likely the ball will be tipped all the time. So that's why it was
tipped. But like Steffanie said, emphasis is always on rebounding and I think
we did a pretty good job of that tonight.



Q. Any of y'all, been pretty business-like, we talked about that this whole
time; can you celebrate, are you excited? (All said "yeah.")



SOPHIA YOUNG: Yeah, all night. We don't have anything to worry about anymore.
So this is definitely a celebration tonight.

STEFFANIE BLACKMON: Yeah, the last game.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Ladies, thank you very much. And now we'll take questions for
the coach. Congratulations on a great season.

_ 

Q. The trademark of Michigan State in their tournament run has always been
strong second halves. What did you remind your players about at half-time to
try and keep them from finding some momentum to get back in the game?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I reminded them that Tennessee had a 16-point lead
with about 14 minutes to go in the semifinal game and they beat them. I
reminded them about the eight-minute mark when we were up double figures
pretty good, that this game wasn't over. That's just the way I coach. I never
let them get comfortable out there and think that the game is won or if it's
over. At the five-minute mark, still said the same thing. If you think the
game is won, you need to sit down by me and let me put somebody on the floor
that understands and you just keep plugging away, you keep playing. And that's
what I said to them.



Q. Could you comment on your status as the first person to win a title as a
player, assistant, a head coach?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I don't think about those things. Certainly it's
an honor. But as I said, I've been blessed all my life to put myself around
winners. When I was in high school I was around winners, when I was in college
I was around winners, and I learned from the best. I don't really know that --
I mean that's -- it's nice, but that's the least of my concerns right now. I'm
so happy for Baylor University. I cannot say it enough.



Q. The three players you had up there outscored Michigan State's bigs by 50
points and Michigan State's team by five. When did you know that you could
have that kind of success with them?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, I thought Michigan State's match-up zone
would present some problems for us. But then again, I knew I had Emily Niemann
and Chameka Scott and I knew I had LaToya Wyatt that could basically shoot the
perimeter shot. But we weren't going to let it become a perimeter game. You
got to get post touches, guys, that's the key to breaking down a zone. You got
to do what got you here and the post game got us here and we kept getting post
touches and Emily was lighting it up from the perimeter and I just can't say
enough about LaToya Wyatt. All year long we have known about Steffanie and
Sophia, because they're all Americans, but we always have had a player
unexpectedly step up and do something that people forget about. Nobody thought
LaToya Wyatt would be a factor in this game and I did and I thought the
penetrating skills with the ball in her hand would break down the zone. I
thought her defensive lateral speed and quickness would come off of staggered
screens and I thought LaToya Wyatt was very big for us tonight.



Q. Can you talk about what you were thinking the first two minutes of the
game, four turnovers in the first five or six possessions; you made the very
quick, very sudden two substitutions right away.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: And I didn't make the substitutions necessarily
because those kids were to blame for the slow start. I just felt like I've had
confidence in anybody I put in. And I felt like we needed some things from
those two kids, Emily, the perimeter shot; and Tisdale, the freshman point
guard could push it up the floor at that time and give us a little spurt of
energy. I thought when we turned it over, you know, three or four times there
in a row, I looked at my staff and I said, "Now how are we going to win a
national championship turning the ball over like this?" And then we settled
down. And I just thought it was a very good performance for us tonight.



Q. You said on television after the game this is one of many to come. You were
talking about your team?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I was talking about Baylor University and all of
athletics at Baylor University. We won one in tennis, now we have won one in
women's basketball. We have got a Top-25 softball team, we got a Top-25
basketball team and our men's basketball team is headed in the right
direction.



Q. Well, you're still pretty young Head Coach, you've only been at it a few
years, I mean, is it hard not to look down the road and see how many you might
be able to win?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No, man, I live day-to-day. In this profession it
wears on you. I love what I do, I have a passion for what I do. We have a lot
of young players. We only lose three seniors, two of those get significant
time, but we have got a returning nucleus of players that aren't going to go
away and they sure did like the way it felt when that buzzer went off tonight.



Q. What are some of the primary keys to turning around a program over the
course of five years; and second, after seeing what Bruce Webber wore last
night did you feel like you had to come out with something flashy?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I didn't even see the game; I don't know what he
wore. Orange? Well, I wouldn't have worn orange, I can tell you that.
(Laughter.) What was your first question?



Q. Keys to building the program.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: The keys to building a program are you better be
at a school that has an athletic director and an administration that will give
you what you want and give you most importantly time to build a program. And
give you the resources. Secondly, you better go hire you a staff that will
roll their sleeves up and make you look good and understand what you have to
do in recruiting to go out and build. You can't go out after the McDonald's
All-Americans, you got to go after sleepers and beat the bushes and find those
players. We just won a national championship with not one kid on the roster
that was recruited by the powers that be. And that gives hope to all of us
that are trying to build a program. To the outfit, my assistant Coach Jennifer
White saw it in a store the night before we left and I told her to bring it
on. That's the story behind the outfit.



Q. You talked about the rebounding edge; the fact that you had so many players
involved too, LaToya I believe had six, Chameka, Chelsea. How big was that,
knowing that maybe Steffanie and Sophia couldn't get them all?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We got loot of long rebounds, and we also used our
guards to go get a lot of tough rebounds down deep. I thought that there was
one minute there where Steffanie Blackmon came across the lane, Emily Niemann
had blocked her girl out and Emily couldn't get to it but she made sure, by
God, her girl wasn't going to get to it. I love seeing things like that. It
was a total team effort in everything we did tonight. When you can play your
entire team in a national championship game and those young ladies get an
opportunity to run down that floor and dribble the ball and play everybody,
what a wonderful feeling.



Q. You mentioned that you are the first team men's or women's from the Big 12
to win a national title in basketball. If someone had said Baylor would do
that in 1997 when the league was formed, I think a lot of people would have
thought you were crazy. Can you just comment on it that you were the ones.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Oh, I'm not sure what people say about Baylor and
I really don't give a rip what they say. We're national champions today. They
probably said we didn't belong in the Big 12. My guess is they're rethinking
that, aren't they?

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach, thank you very much. We're going to release you back to
the locker room. Congratulations on a wonderful season and your national
championship.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 4, 2005

  

### [Sue Donohoe](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15066)

### [Lynn Parkes](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14491)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're joined with Lynn Parkes and Sue Donohoe. We're going to
allow Lynn as the chair to make an opening comment and then we'll go our
questions, please. Thank you.

_

LYNN PARKES: Good afternoon. On behalf of the committee, I just want to thank
you for being here today and tell you how delighted we are with the way the
championship has worked this year. I think we have all experienced in the last
three or four weeks what we have talked about during the regular season and
that parity is real. When we look at our Final Four teams and the way things
have developed, that that is what parity is. So we're living that this
weekend. We're delighted with the championship and looking forward to a
wonderful championship game tomorrow night.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: And we'll start with questions for either Sue or Lynn.

_ 

Q. Parity, it seems like people have different opinions as to whether parity
is good or not good. Tell me why it's good for women's basketball.



LYNN PARKES: Well, I think when you see what we call parity, that speaks to
the fact that programs are developing, that institutions have made commitments
to their women's basketball programs that allow them the resources and the
time and effort to bring their programs forward. I think as much as anything
that's what it says.



Q. Lynn, I know it's only a couple weeks after the new format, for the first
and second rounds, but just based on attendance figures and just initial
feedback, just the committee's thought on the new format.



LYNN PARKES: Well, I think that we're very pleased with it. I think that we
had some challenges with the format. I think there certainly were some things
on the plus side of the ledger as well. We had an opportunity to have
additional neutral games as a result of that. We certainly see that as a
positive thing. We know and we're not surprised that our attendance took a
little bit of a hit. But I think that what we're also seeing is that we were
down a little bit in the regionals. I think that was related to the Easter
Sunday weekend. Obviously that's not something we can control. But it's a
process, it's an education process for the fans and I think we'll work through
that part. So we're very pleased with it and we certainly think that it adds a
new dimension for us and there's a lot of positive things that have resulted.



Q. For Lynn, the attendance, I think to say Easter weekend is a little bit, I
mean attendance was abysmal, especially in my Regional at Kansas City. How
does the attendance at a place like that affect the NCAA's view on bringing a
Regional back to that area?



LYNN PARKES: Well, attendance is just one component of what we look at when we
determine a site. And there were some teams that had an opportunity to advance
in that area that may have affected that one way or another. So although it's
important to us, we want to create a good environment for the student-
athletes. All this is not revenue-driven. We want it to be a good environment
for the student-athletes. But there are other components as well, community
support, volunteer support, those sorts of things. So all of that factors in.



Q. Women's sports in general seem to be still a niche market in this country,
whether it's women's gymnastics in Utah or women's basketball in eastern
Tennessee. How does that affect your philosophy in putting on the tournament;
are you trying to overcome this and bring the women's game to areas where it
may not be as popular or do you use that fact in order to drive your
selections?



LYNN PARKES: All of the above. I think all of those things roll into what the
decision is. And you're exactly right, we have all talked about that, women's
basketball for many fans, it is a niche market. And it's an educational
process that we're going through in trying to take that fan that has an
affinity for a particular team and broaden the scope so that they're
basketball fans instead of a fan of a particular institution.



Q. What can you do or how much more proactive does the NCAA have to be as far
as selling regionals? Because a Final Four now has been on lottery system
since 1998, been an advance sellout since 1993 and yet it seems like there's
still a lot of trouble selling the regionals. You've talked before about the
potential of maybe awarding regionals for multi years; is that still on the
table?



LYNN PARKES: Well, we actually have done that in this last cycle. And at this
point we're only awarding for two years and that's kind of a test shot, so to
speak, see how that works and then we'll circle back and assess it and move
from there. But what we think that that will do for us is give a host
institution and a host city an opportunity for multiple marketing
opportunities and maybe even working with coaches to come into that area and
do some promotional type things, so that we can kind of grow it from the
ground up. So I think that we're in a situation where we want to be creative,
we want to be smart in the way we progress. But we need to do some things to
grow that. We were just talking yesterday that in the next couple of years
we're actually in a traditional arena, where we'll have fewer tickets on the
street. And we hope that some of those basketball fans that may not have an
opportunity to attend a Final Four, we can drive them to a Regional and let
that be the basketball experience for them for that particular year.



Q. This question is for Sue. TV ratings seem to drive sports more each year,
does it -- is there a bit of an, I don't want to say disappointment, but
without a UCONN, without a Tennessee in the championship game, does that -- do
you worry about what effect that's going to have?



SUE DONOHOE: I don't think so. I think that we have looked at numbers over the
last several weeks and certainly we'll look at numbers that they pulled down
last night and we feel confident that the numbers were good from last night.
Last year was an extraordinary year. From a ratings standpoint, we just blew
the top out and ESPN certainly deserves a lot of credit for that and how they
broadcast the games and the production of those. When you look at what we have
accomplished from a ratings standpoint, over an extended period of time, we're
still very good this year. We're not as good as we were last year, but you're
not going to have the kind of year that we had last year. I think there's
several reasons for that. We have had some games that maybe teams got out to
an early lead and kept that lead and it affected folks turning and looking for
something else. But without a doubt in my mind, I think talking with our ESPN
partners last night, they feel very good about what we have done through the
tournament and certainly we feel like we'll pull good numbers from last night.
Tennessee and UCONN are the names that folks recognize and certainly they have
carried the torch and the tradition for a long time. But I think that there
will be a crowd tomorrow night tuning in to see the new kids on the block.

LYNN PARKES: I want to circle back to your question too and ask Sue to take
just a minute to talk about a branding and marketing initiative that the NCAA
and the issues committee has taken on. Because I think it's very, very
positive and certainly in line with what your question was.

SUE DONAHOE: Thank, Lynn. We have been working for about 18 to 20 months now
on what we call a branding attribute initiative for NCAA women's basketball
and basically what we have done with that, we have spent an extraordinary
amount of time doing a great deal of research. And we have gone out to focus
groups and we have talked with them, tell us what makes women's basketball
unique, what sets women's basketball aside. And we have talked with student-
athletes, we have talked with fans, we have talked with coaches, we have
talked to the general public and we have identified five to six brand
attributes: Sportsmanship, role model, community involvement, fundamental
play. Those things that define what women's basketball is. And what we did
this morning, we had a breakfast meeting very early with the women's coaches
Divisions 1, 2 and 3, and we asked them to take a part in delivering that
message every day, all day about what women's basketball is and deliver that
message wide, deliver it far, so that hopefully we can build some equity in
our brand, we can distinguish ourselves within the marketplace, and certainly
our measurable outcome for that will be attendance and it's attendance in the
regular season and ultimately an increase in attendance at the championship.



Q. Can both of you ladies address if it hasn't been already, the thought of
what's going into, there's a move now to move the three-point line and all
these things for international -- seems to be towards with the international
play in mind and what have you; how do you think and what do you think of it
in regards to women's basketball, is it necessary or not?



LYNN PARKES: Well, that's something that would be addressed through the issues
committee and the rules committee. And I'm going to let Sue kind of take that
one because I know she's been a part of the discussion more than likely.

SUE DONOHOE: You know, there was an effort to make that change, to extend the
three-point line and then to widen the lane. There were some folks that were
very much in favor of it, so many folks that were opposed to it. With the
opposition opposed, those recommendations were pulled off the table, and it
allows both the Men's and Women's Rules Committees to go back to the table,
have further discussion, maybe put some experimental rules out there. I think
what you're seeing is, when you see a lot of the international play and a lot
of our young student-athletes and coaches are participating in that
international play, those that support it believe that extending the three-
point line and it's only an extension of about no more than nine inches, so
we're talking about like this (indicating), that that certainly was not as
controversial as the widening of the lane. But I think those that support it
believe that by widening the lane, that it will free up some of the rough post
play that happens in the paint. But where we are with it right now, the rules
committees meet early May, and both the men's and women's rules committees
will spend some significant time discussing it. They have done a great job of
talking with the membership out in the coaches organizations to get a position
on where the coaches are with it. So it's certainly a topic for discussion
that they will have this spring and we'll see where the rules committee goes
with it from there.



Q. Will both the men and the women have to agree on it or can it be one or the
other?



SUE DONOHOE: It could be one or the other. I think ideally from a facility
standpoint and a logistical standpoint and a commonality standpoint it makes
sense. But certainly if the men feel like they need to make that change, they
would. The men's and women's rules committee work very closely, they actually
meet at the same time, they open up their meeting with a general session where
they can identify common issues and areas that they need to discuss and then
throughout that rules meeting our staff folks that work with them are back and
forth so that they're talking about the same common points. So they will work
on that together. But it's certainly not something they would have to decide
collaboratively.



Q. You guys will decide the 2007 first and second round sites later this
summer, is that correct?



LYNN PARKES: Yes.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: And are all bids in already for those?

_

LYNN PARKES: Yes.



Q. Can you give me a feeling, are there many more bids similar to what Texas
and Texas Tech did this past year as far as two schools together submitting a
bid for a neutral site?



SUE DONAHOE: The bids that we received, we don't have a lot of that sort of
model. I think that I had the opportunity to start the tournament out in
Dallas. And I felt like there were some very strong points to the model that
Texas and Texas Tech put together. Certainly Dallas is a great city and they
did a great job hosting. We don't have a lot of that, but I would say this: I
think we have got a significant amount of interest from a lot of different
institutions and conferences that are interested in hosting in 2007, 2008. I
think someone asked me the number and we had 30-plus bids submitted. So
that's, that gives us a good pool of institutions and facilities from which we
can choose.



Q. When you say 30 host cities, is that for just the regionals or for first
and second rounds as well.



SUE DONAHOE: First and second rounds. And we have got some folks that
submitted bids both for first and second round and for regionals. Which is
good, because it gives the committee some flexibility to distribute the
tournament sites throughout the country. As Lynn referenced earlier, the
opportunity for some of these sites to bid for two years we had a significant
amount of interest in that from a Regional standpoint. And the step that the
committees take on the move to neutral Regional sites in 2007, 2008, that's
the next incremental step to get us to a totally neutral tournament.



Q. Sue, you kind of maybe answered the question a little bit, but in looking
at the regionals, a lot of interest from cities trying to go back-to-back
years and did you have to go out and ask cities to do this; did you solicit it
or did cities come to you and say, "Hey, we're really wanting to do this back-
to-back year thing."



SUE DONAHOE: You know what, we got great response. We didn't go out and
solicit it. The cities and the facilities and hosts that submitted those bids,
they understand what that can do for us. Because they understand by coming in
and the effort that the committee does and the staff does in helping them
prepare, they understand that instead of trying to build equity for one year,
they have got about a two and a half year window there that they can build and
they can market and grow and it's going to be exciting to see how it works out
for us. But it's one of those steps that we think will have a good return and
have good results.



Q. New Mexico has been one of the best regionals in terms of attendance. And
they're going to be a regional if I understand it, next year, they're going to
have it. Do you think in 2007 and beyond, a school like New Mexico will still
be as interested in hosting regionals if they cannot -- if from what I
understand the Lobos couldn't appear there. Do you think that you'll still get
that kind of interest from a school like that once it has to be a neutral site
and their school can't appear there?



LYNN PARKES: Well, I think what you'll find is I think New Mexico will have
some interest in doing that. I think we have some other sites that have a long
history of hosting events. I think what you'll find is that institutions may
find other locations that can be supported by that fan base that might not be
on their home floor. And the way we have defined neutral sites is that
institutions can play on that home, on that site no more than three times
during the regular season, excluding the conference tournaments. So using
Memphis as an example, if we play on campus and we wanted to host a Regional,
we could go to the Fed Ex Forum and host it there because at this point we
don't play more than three games in the forum. So there are ways to work
through the system, meet their neutral site responsibility and still draw from
a traditional fan base.



Q. Could you address what the advantages are from your standpoint of moving
the announcement of the selections from Sunday to Monday?



LYNN PARKES: Well, we talked for a long time about whether to make that move
or not. And ESPN came to us with the concept and they have been a wonderful
television partner and have provided us with some opportunities that frankly
have worked and developed the championship. In this particular case, they feel
that we have an opportunity and we have come to the point where we agree with
them, in that they're creating a situation where we will own the night. It
will be our show, we have a guaranteed one-hour window. And we work through
what we feel like were some of the hurdles that we didn't want to disadvantage
teams in terms of travel and those sorts of things. We feel like that was part
of the delay in not moving to that selection Monday, this weekend, to give us
an opportunity to work through some of those things. So they also are working
with the committee about some other initiatives that are included in this that
will promote that, that will even bleed into the regular season and we feel
like that the whole package will really be a great asset for women's
basketball.

SUE DONOHOE: I would just add a couple of comments there. The commitment that
ESPN has made to this women's championship over the last years has just been
phenomenal and we sit here today with all 63 of our games telecast and that's
a commitment from ESPN. ESPN is quick to say and I would agree, that this
championship is one of their premier properties. And as Lynn mentioned, we
have talked for a long time about this and it was a very difficult decision
and we stayed at the negotiation table a long time, and we got up from that
table and we came back a couple of times. But at the end of the day, when
you're partner says let us take this and let this championship and this
selection and let us give it the treatment and the exposure that it needs,
that's when the committee felt like let's take that step. And then when
essentially when ESPN came back and said, we understand that building regular
season helps build championships. That was an important factor. So it's been a
long time in discussion and a lot of back and forth, but if we're going to
continue to grow the championship, there is some risk and there's some good,
good chances that you need to take and the committee feels like this is one
that hopefully will set us apart and give us an identity, a place of our own.



Q. To follow it up, do you have an understanding from ESPN that they are going
to increase their commitment to more regular season programming?



SUE DONOHOE: Yeah, absolutely. And there were some -- the way that we rolled
this information out, we went to the WBCA officers first, we went to their
Board of Directors and then the first group of individuals that were aware
that the decision had been made were our coaches. And we sent an e-mail blast
out notifying our coaches immediately before anybody else knew. And several of
the points in that informational piece was the commitment that ESPN is going
to continue to make to the regular season. You saw some of those commitments
this year that you might not have seen in the past. You had rivalry week.
Well, we have always had, we had rivalry week on the men's side, but we saw it
on the women's side. We had a February Frenzy. We had Challenge Week. So ESPN
put some packages together that we have not had a part of on the women's side.
And they have committed moving forward when we implement Selection Monday,
they have made some commitments to regular season, because they understand how
important the growth and exposure for regular season is. They have talked
about some very specific things to us at this point. We will spend a great
time with ESPN and their leadership team in late June and we will do a
complete breakdown and they will talk us through exactly what their plans are.
Likewise, the committee at that time will talk with them about, here are some
expectations that not only does the committee have, but the entire women's
basketball community has. Lynn and I just finished a couple hours ago a
meeting with our Division I coaches, they had some things that they brought to
us relative to regular season and we'll go right with ESPN and visit with them
about that. The good thing that we have got with ESPN right now is we do have
a partnership. And it is a developing partnership. And it's a growing
relationship. They have the best interests of the championship in mind and
certainly the committee does as well.



Q. Part and parcel to the Monday deal, if conferences want to take advantage
and move their championships, everything finishes on Saturday into Sunday,
would you encourage that or would you rather them stay where they are to give
you more time now that you actually would have to work on the bracket.



LYNN PARKES: Well, I think that a lot of conferences will probably take that
opportunity and in some cases I think it could give them a little bit more
television opportunity. Although we would love to have that extra day, we feel
like we can get it done in the amount of time that we have had. So we'll be
glad to work with conferences.

SUE DONOHOE: We had quite a bit of support from conferences because we have
got a lot of women's tournaments that take place, they begin on Wednesday with
their early rounds, and Thursday, Friday, Saturday. Well, their attendance for
their conference tournament suffers because of that. By virtue of our move to
Selection Monday, that allows them to move their women's tournament a day
later, and certainly they see increased attendance numbers over the weekend.
So we hope that that's going to be beneficial from a conference tournament
standpoint as well.



Q. I guess two questions. One, for this being, as you put it, Sue, I think a
premier property for ESPN, women's basketball, were you disappointed that last
night it went head to head with Yankees/Red Sox on another ESPN affiliate,
first question. And second, what do you say to the west coast viewers and
coaches and even the Mountain Time Zone, that now is going to have a four
o'clock Monday afternoon selection show or five o'clock Monday, which is far
from prime time.



LYNN PARKES: Well, we factored all that in as we weighed this out. And what
the benefits were. Although we would love to all have a Sunday afternoon that
we could have all together, by moving to Monday and at the end of the day we
felt like that the benefits far outweighed the downside. And I know that the
west coast folks will work with us. They're pretty creative folks and they
will find ways to make it work as well.

SUE DONAHOE: And to speak to your first question, who won that ballgame.



Q. Yankees?



SUE DONOHOE: Okay. Well, you know, as far as ESPN programming, we certainly
were aware, I would saying ESPN feels this way and I think certainly the
women's basketball community feels this way. You got Sunday night, you got the
Yankees and the Sox and you got two of the best women's semi final games that
you could have. I mean, that's a great Sunday night for sports fans.

LYNN PARKES: That's why they make split screens.

SUE DONAHOE: I think that we have the strength in our championship and
certainly in the Women's Final Four to hold our own there. And I know that
there are a lot of baseball fans, myself being one of them, but my focus and I
think the women's basketball community and certainly the nation right now even
though we're opening day of baseball, I think folks are still into the March
Madness and the Final Four Frenzy. So I think we're strong enough to hold our
own.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Okay. I'm going to let them go. Okay. Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 4, 2005

  

### [Lindsay Bowen](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16353)

### [Kristin Haynie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15312)

### [Victoria Lucas-Perry](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16356)

### [Joanne P. McCallie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14490)

### [Kelli Roehrig](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16351)

### [Liz Shimek](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16355)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: All right. We'll start with an opening statement by the coach
and then questions for the players first.

_

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think it's a great match-up. I think Baylor is a
great team. I think we're a great team. I think both teams play very, very
hard. And I just think that excellent players, good balance, excellent post
play, excellent guard play. Just a lot of elements in the game and that's very
exciting. I think as two teams that have not been to that point before, I
think that adds even more excitement to the opportunity. So I just think it's
a great women's basketball game.



Q. I like to ask for both Kelli and for Liz, you faced some pretty good front
courts, not only in the tournament but in your conference I was wondering how
Blackmon and Young, from what you've seen on film, looking forward to them as
a forward tandem, how you feel about them.



KELLI ROEHRIG: They're very good post players. They work very well together.
As I think we work well together. So it's going to be a great match-up. It
should be really an interesting game in the front court.

LIZ SHIMEK: I think she answered it pretty well for herself. It's going to be
a great match-up, it's going to be a battle again. Its going to be a great
physical game again to the end.



Q. Lindsay, got a question for you about a moment that you guys shared at the
center court last night. With eight minutes to play you gathered every one
together; can you share with us what that was all about because it seemed like
you were at a do-or-die time of the game?



LINDSAY BOWEN: When was this?



Q. You gathered everybody together about eight minutes to go, it seemed you
were still trying to rally the troops I believe.



LINDSAY BOWEN: We were trying to refocus and regroup and say we have been in
these situations before and just stay tough until the end. And I think we
played a great game as a team and it was a great effort.



Q. This is for Kristin. Kristin, you didn't score your first basket until I
think 15 minutes, 15 and a half minutes left there in the second half; how
much did you feel personally responsible for the fact that you guys were down
double digits and you hadn't scored.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Everyone struggles, everyone has their bad games and that's
why we have a great team, a well-balanced team. Five or six of us can score
double figures any given night. That's what teammates are for and they stepped
up and did a great job.



Q. Lindsay, what are going to be your keys to the game and how can y'all beat
Baylor?



LINDSAY BOWEN: Just they're a balanced team like we are, and you can't key on
a couple players. So it's going to be rebounding for sure, hitting people and
defense, really getting after them, ball pressure, so they can't see inside
and it's just going to be battle.



Q. This is for any and all of the players. There's going to be a lot of green
in here tomorrow night, your coach referred to that last night; do you think
you have ever seen so much green in one place?



VICTORIA LUCAS-PERRY: Yeah, I think we saw that kind of green at the Ohio
State game. We had a lot of support there. A lot of fans there supporting us.
So I think we have seen this kind of crowd before. It will be great to know
that there's only one color. (Laughter.)

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: It's simple. (Laughter.)



Q. Question for Liz. The Baylor players have said all year long they thought,
yeah, we can get to this point. They're still right now kind of saying, wow,
pinching themselves that they're really here. Do you guys feel a little bit
the same way?



LIZ SHIMEK: Ever since summer we have been dreaming big, Final Fours, pursue
championships in everything that we do. And it's not a surprise to us because
we have worked so hard all year and over the course of years for all of us and
it's a step for us and we know we belong here because we worked so hard.



Q. People like to make a lot about the teams that have been to the Final Fours
before, especially the Tennessees, UCONNs, the teams like that. What does it
take for a team to know it can beat a Tennessee and to feel confident they can
come back against a Tennessee and not act as if it's never been there before?



KELLI ROEHRIG: I'll get it. I think that all season, I mean have you seen our
schedule? We played some big time teams in the conference season and all
season long. And we beat some really great teams. I think that really comes to
show come tournament time, to be able to beat the Tennessee, and those kind of
teams.



Q. I think y'all have probably played the underdog role pretty well this year
and so has Baylor; is there a way for both of you to be underdogs tomorrow or
who do you think people will be rooting for?



VICTORIA LUCAS-PERRY: I think at this point in the season it doesn't matter
who people are rooting for. We just know ourselves as a team that we're going
to go out there and do what we do.



Q. This is for all the players. We asked Baylor earlier to wrap up their
Coach's personality in one word or in one phrase and most of them said
"intense" for Kim Mulkey-Robertson. I wonder if each of you could do the same
thing for your Coach.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Sum up your Coach in one word, please. (Laughter.) I think it's
supposed to be a team decision because she wanted you to come with up with
your own individual one-word answer. One word or one phrase of how you
describe your Coach.

_

LINDSAY BOWEN: Competitive.

KELLI ROEHRIG: A heartful, competitive, intense woman. (Laughter.) It's
everything together. I mean she's everything. She in life and in basketball.
Extremely intense, just after it. So...

KRISTIN HAYNIE: Not only does she care for us on the court she cares very much
for us off the court and wants to make sure that we're having a great life.
We're not down or whatever. She's there for us if we're struggling off the
court.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Anything else to add?

_

LINDSAY BOWEN: Just very competitive, intense, fierce. The list can go on and
on and on and there's one word that I can't say.

LIZ SHIMEK: Fiercely fun. I said fiercely fun.



Q. This is for any of the players, two-part question. First off, we know how
tight you guys are with the men's team. Did you hear from any of the men's
players or maybe even Coach Izzo, and second, a lot of the fans kind of think
it's fate in this instance that the men won here back in 2000, that they think
that you guys can do it again five years later.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Yeah, Calvin, after the game he sent me a text message and he
left a voice mail. He was just really happy for us and he's like "bring home
that championship for us." And they're behind us, they're cheering us a
hundred percent.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the student-athletes? All right. I'm letting them
go to their break-out sessions. We'll take questions for the coach.

_ 

Q. Both you and Baylor play some tough non-conference games in addition to
conference schedule. How important is that like the game against Connecticut
in preparing you for a Final Four?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I just think the more times you do things, the
better off you are. And the more you can repeat them, and I think definitely
at Connecticut is a very difficult place to play. I think that was a big game
for us to rise to that occasion. At Notre Dame was a big game to rise again.
Minnesota is a terrific team. Beating them at Minnesota under adverse
circumstances and being able to beat Minnesota three times I think said a lot
to our team's perseverance. There's a lot of games like that when you look at
Stanford and you look at Vandy and so forth. That's the tournament. But I just
think that the more you go after it, the more great teams you play, the more
comfortable you are in any environment. And this game is about really our
team. Playing 40 minutes and doing what we want to do and that's really what
it's about for us.



Q. Can you talk a little bit about rebounding tomorrow and what you need Kelli
specifically to do?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Get some. Our rebounding was horrendous against
Tennessee. Our team has already been informed of that fact this morning at
film and it was very poor and that's unacceptable.



Q. The BC game and Notre Dame games early, what did that do for your team the
way you won and was that when you started to sense where this team had that
quality to win games like yesterday?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think bringing up the BC was a great thought. We
played them at home and it was a great basketball game and I do think you get
a sense of how to do things. Our team in overtime is undefeated and has been
very strong for two years. Again, I think it's the repetition, going after it,
that was a great game. BC is a terrific team and that probably kickstarted
some of the things that we did after that. There have been so many great
games, I just -- there's been so many, it's unbelievable how many great games
there have been.



Q. The teams are so similar, from their schedules to where their programs were
five years ago to the coach's personalities; who kind of wears the tag "Team
of Destiny" tomorrow night?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think you could argue that for both teams. Nobody
-- I mean -- I mean both teams at this point are teams of destiny, equally so.
It's just a battle. It's just a 40-minute battle or whatever it takes. Maybe
it's not 40, I don't know. But that's all it is. It's just a battle by two
teams. But I wouldn't argue for either one. They're both great stories.



Q. What's your biggest concern about Baylor?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: You have to say the great post players inside and
what they do. They're very, very good. Very quick and athletic. Rebounding is
a great concern of ours simply because we didn't do well against Tennessee in
that area. Ball pressure, there's a lot of things that we need to pick up. I
really think we played 25 minutes of our style against Tennessee and then I'm
not sure what we did the rest of the time. And it cost us greatly, as you saw.
And we were able to battle back from it. But probably those areas.



Q. Can you talk about what kind of problems Emily Niemann presents especially
the way she's been able to go inside and outside?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, what an X factor, what a great player. I think
she was the difference maker in the LSU game. And I think her inside/outside
ability is very good for them and very versatile and we're going to have to
locate her all the time and know where she is and give her nothing on the
outside and make sure when she cuts to the inside that she's guarded also. But
I definitely think she's a very interesting story and I think she is a key to
their game as we have seen against LSU.



Q. It's been kind of striking how Liz is your leading scorer and rebounder.
It's like nobody wants to mention her or talk about her. They want to talk
about the other players. Have you noticed that and just talk about what you've
appreciated about her the last few years, what she's meant to your team and
maybe even last night because she had a real good first half where you might
have gotten blown out of water; just talk about that.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Liz Shimek is one of the best four players in the
country, hands down. You can't even begin to argue that or argue against that
fact. She's -- you know, people haven't covered our team all year in the sense
of getting to know our team intimately. And so we're well balanced as a team
and so perhaps she could be overlooked. But she certainly is not overlooked in
anyone's mind, particularly opponents. She just is so strong and she's so
tough and she's such a great competitor. What I love most about her is just
who she is as a person. She's one of the most honest hard-working people
you're ever going to meet and she wants to rise to the occasion all the time.
And she's just the absolute best to coach. She deserves it all, that's for
sure.



Q. You and Kim have unfortunately made building a program look easy. Being
that you both got here in five years, has something changed in the culture of
the women's game that has made these sort of meteoric rises possible a lot
faster than people thought?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think that it's kind of hard to answer. I just
think the game is growing in all areas, including potential recruits and
opportunities. I think a lot of women today are excited about what they can do
athletically. I guess people -- I just commend Kim so much for her recruiting
efforts and what she's done at Baylor. I think that the game is just getting
more interesting in every aspect, whether it's more great recruits, head
coaches and different opportunities for kids to play for. I think some kids
are not -- are looking at different places more because they're seeing more
fan support. Now at Michigan State we can show a picture of 14,000 people in
our game against Ohio State. That's bound to attract a few recruits right
there. So I just think that there's a growth thing going on and perhaps you're
seeing some of that in this final.



Q. People talk about these two teams being in the Final Four as proof of their
being parity and whatever you want to call it. Are you guys sort of
beneficiaries of parity in the sense that there's more good teams out there
for you to play during the course of the season and it allows you to get more
experience where maybe 10 years ago even the toughest schedule in the country
wasn't going to feature as many good teams night in, night out?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I'm sure that there's so many great teams out there.
There are, so many more. And the coaching is better, the players are better,
the schedules are better. Everything about it has taken an upswing. Again I
think it's just getting started really and it will continue and there will be
many more Michigan State, Baylor stories coming.



Q. Sherrie Cole said a couple years ago when Oklahoma made its debut in the
Final Four, that the important thing is what the next four or five years
brought to her program, especially in terms of recruiting. I wonder if you
could address that and also do you feel like your program is, can and needs to
recruit on a national basis or can you be national contenders mostly
recruiting in the Michigan and Ohio area?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, my gosh, there's so much talent in those areas.
I think that we do nationally recruit, but if we can go 30 miles, that's how
far we're going to go because I can't stand recruiting. And so I will take the
shortest distance to a recruit. So I just think there's great talent in the
Midwest. I think if you can get great talent in the Midwest why would you go
somewhere else? But if somebody else was very excited about Michigan State,
and it was out in California, or somewhere, great, I would go there too. I
guess the point is you just want to have a life, you want to be balanced and
you want to do the very best you can. I think that's one of the attractive
things that kids want to play at Michigan State is because they definitely
know we got balance. We have a lot of fun and I think the overall theme is to
get more kids attracted to your school than you have scholarships for and then
I think you're in a really excellent situation.



Q. You mentioned a couple times about the balance that you have on your team.
Is it hard in today's environment to get kids to think that way and how did
you go about trying to evolve into the team that you have?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, we just couldn't think too much about it, to
be honest with you. We needed to get a whole heck of a lot better and people
needed to play out their roles. And so it just was, it just kind of evolved
from what was needed. I think kids today, you can coach anybody. I tell you
what, kids today have a lot of problems; on the computer too much, they dress
weirdly and do all sorts of funky things, but I have never found a kid that
you couldn't coach. You can coach everybody. There's something inside of every
kid that you can reach to. And I don't care what anyone says, kids are still
kids. It's the adults that are the problem, frankly. I wouldn't want to coach
adults.



Q. Tell us your version to recruiting, there's legislation in the pipeline
that would change part of that process particularly as regards to AAU. Can you
talk about like what your involvement, what your theory is about AAU, club
teams and so forth and what you think that legislation, what effect that would
have if it goes through?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, I think it is a hard subject. I'm not a
regulation person, myself. I like sort of a free-market approach that comes
from my husband, I guess. But I do think that it's overdone with many kids. I
know for example my own daughter would never play a full year of a sport like
that and go crazy with all these schedules and these games. We can do it at
different times of the year, but I think it's important to have a balance, a
healthy balance of what you're doing with children and so it's a tough fee,
because you know I hate to regulate, I just hate to do that. But there has to
be a balance. I think that there's some things that are overdone but then you
have to credit AAU for the national exposure and tournaments and the
opportunity. So I don't know. I'm kind of just trying to think through that. I
don't really have an answer for you today, except to say that it's a real
issue, one that needs to be dealt with and I don't know if regulation is the
answer.



Q. If a program wants to get serious about being competitive in women's
basketball, what advice would you give it?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Money. Lots of it. Pour it in. It just takes a whole
lot of financial resources to get it done from what you're going to do to
attract coaching staff. We have a fabulous staff at Michigan State and it
makes all the difference in the world. We have a top level coaching staff. We
have top flight facilities. They're the best in the country. It's easy for us
to sell that. So we're very fortunate with all that we have and it does take
resources, resources are a big key.



Q. To take a short diversion, today Sue Gunter got voted into the Hall of
Fame. Do you have any recollections or did you ever play against her as a
player or a coach?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yeah, I coached against Sue when I was at Auburn.
She's a terrific woman; I have the utmost respect for her. She served as
reference for me in my application for my first head coaching job at Maine.
And she is somebody who I just think is just an incredible pioneer of the
game. She's done amazing things for the women's game all the way around. And
there's nothing more fitting than her to receive that award.



Q. It seemed like after the game you commended everybody on your team and
you've talked about the team effort. Can you kind of go through your starters
and what makes each one of them click and how they all put this together.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Based on last night's performance or just overall?
Oh, well, okay. Kristin Haynie point guard, one of the best in the country. I
would say she's one of the top four point guards in the country. It's because
she does so much. She always comes prepared. She struggled at some times in
that game, but of course got a critical steal that was pretty much a game-
decider. That's typical Kristin. She's always going to be there. She's always
going to come around as a competitor. Lindsay Bowen, terrific player,
developed her game, she's become more versatile. Her defense has gotten a lot
better and she's just the biggest fighter you're going to ever see and the
biggest competitor. When she's shooting as a competitor, she's incredibly
accurate. Victoria Lucas-Perry, as a sophomore I thought played with senior
poise. One X factor, difference-maker all the way. Throughout the year she's
done the types of things that you witnessed last night. I talked about Liz
Shimek being one of the top four players in the country. She can play inside
and out, she's one of the hardest-working people I know. Kelli Roehrig, just
she's so comfortable with who she is. She knows who she is, she loves who she
is and she goes out there and intimidates people much more than people
understand. Her size and her ability to intimidate is very real. I think that
those five together add a lot of different elements to make things go.



Q. I think that it would probably be fair to say that most of the people in
this building were not dressed in green and were expecting to come back
tomorrow night to see a LSU-Tennessee game. What would you say to those people
who would say this is a surprising result to see these two teams in the Final
Four?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, I would tell them to find the greenest T-shirt
they could wear and come back. There is great Tennessee fans that I was taking
pictures with after the game and it's difficult. Nobody wants to be out of a
tournament. But, boy, you might as well make good on your tickets. I think all
the Tennessee fans -- listen my husband is from Chattanooga, Tennessee, if
that helps. You know. Seems to me they should come back and support the green.
But it's just, for them I just think the game's growing and it's exciting and
many people did enjoy the game, even despite the outcome, if it did go against
them. And talk about great games for women's basketball on national TV and
there's something to be said for that, that's a very good thing.



Q. You were talking about your days at Maine; what do you remember about Ian
McCall and have you had a chance to catch up with him this weekend?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I have talked to Ian, he's been -- he's had a
terrific career as an athletic director. He was not at Maine when I was. He
was just leaving. So I never worked with Ian. But he's very, very good and
very, very good at what he does and I know he loves being at Baylor.



Q. I want to just take you back if you would to when were you coaching at
Maine before all those standing-room-only crowds in Durham and Burlington and
everywhere else and now you're here, how does this feel for a down-east girl
coming back doing this?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: It just feels great. I love being from Maine. Maine
is one of the most beautiful states and the people are incredible and I'm very
grateful to Mike Plasick, the first athletic director that ever hired me at
age 26. That was a long time ago. And I'm very grateful to the Maine people,
they supported me throughout my career, and I have followed the e-mails I get,
the communication I get from former Maine players and Maine people, has been
absolutely incredible. You never forget where you're from and I just am proud
to be a Mainer.



Q. All year long you've talked about one game at a time, no game is bigger
than the other. Can you really do that with the championship game?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, I think it's important that we just stay true
to how we have gotten here and how we have gotten here has been to be awful
worried about ourselves and playing our basketball and being motivated by the
fact that basically we have only got one more game to really get after some
things and there are summer workouts. So it seems to me that we should get a
few of our goals with a game that we have left. And I think that's the
important thing is to be true to who we are. And this team needs to play this
game for them.



Q. Going back to recruiting, what did you sell your players on when you were
recruiting them and who was your hardest sell?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I sold them on pursuing championships, meaning
getting bunches of them. Collecting hardware. Trying to go after the men a
little bit, because they have so much. Sold them on Michigan State as a fine
institution, sold them on the people at Michigan State. Sold them on our
facilities and our support and all those things. Hardest sell -- I don't know.
It just seemed like none of them were. We worked hard to get all of our kids,
but it didn't seem like any of them were a hard sell. I really believe that
you kind of go where you're supposed to and you kind of recruit who fits you
and it kind of -- some of it happens very naturally. So I can't say that -- we
didn't have any holdouts. These guys came on board pretty convincingly.



Q. We in the media are quick to try and look or anoint new faces to a game.
You and Kim are fairly similar, I think, in your approaches. Do you guys bring
anything quote unquote new to the game or in a sense are you both kind of old
fashioned coaches and you've --



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: We're too young to be old fashioned. We can't be old
fashioned yet. I don't know. I think we bring just a lot of energy. The game
now is so -- everything is so close. You look at statistics and everything,
everything is so close that there's got to be intangibles that make up the
difference. I think that me and Kim, you see the energy that we put into our
teams. I think that we have a responsibility. I think we're similar -- I don't
think that either one of us have an ego. I don't think we care. So sometimes
we'll act up a little bit or get feisty, whatever you want to call it, it's
not about how we look, it's not the glamor coach approach. It's what can you
do for your team today, fundamentally. And I think that we both probably share
those thoughts.



Q. What can a coach do just in general, especially in a game or in preparation
in terms of giving confidence to a team or maybe the coach has kind of maybe
been through this before but the players haven't.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, a coach, first of all, just provides that
belief, the belief in them. And you know these players very, very well. You
can read players' moods, you can get a sense of where they're at, and what
they're affected by. And it's important to be the leader and be up front about
what's going to happen on the floor. That's just what you got to do. You got
to, no matter what, no matter what the circumstances are, everybody can do
great things when it's easy and things are going easy. When things are hard,
that's when the true character comes out. And I think coaches have to
exemplify that all the time. And you just got to, frankly, be there for them.



Q. You talked about the rebounding, but can you talk about how important that
whole match up inside is with Blackmon and Young?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: We will not stop them, you just try to slow them
down and maybe take away some things that they like to do. They're both great
players. They play hard, they're just very, very good players. So no one's
going to stop them. You're just going to try to do a few things and maybe make
a difference. Maybe where they catch the ball, how they turn, which side they
can go. This type of thing defensively. And I do think that those are great
match-ups and it will be fun to watch.



Q. As the mother of two young children, how difficult has it been to balance
your family and basketball, especially during the NCAA post season with all
the demands on your time and how have your kids enjoyed this experience?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, that's a great question. Because in the last
three weeks I tell you I'm really worried about the dog too and the bunny.
It's been rough. I have not seen the dog or the bunny or the children. But the
good thing about the children is they travel. So I do see them. Have I had
great time with them, lots of time? Absolutely not. I miss them. So I get to
go see them and that's a great thing. I'm very lucky that my daughter is 10
and just is way into this. So you surround them with cousins, you surround
them with family and friends and they sort of are the surrogates for you while
you're completely unavailable. And I just simply tell them that, "mommy is
coaching. I know I can't listen to you, I know I can't do this for you, I
can't do that for you. But, boy, won't it be fun when we go to Disneyland or
something." (Laughter.). I don't know. You do the best you can. It's a great
problem to have though to be in this situation, that's for sure.



Q. You mentioned your coaching staff a minute ago. Did Al Brown and Semeka
Randall, the fact that they have those Tennessee ties help you at all in
preparation or during the course of the game against Tennessee?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Gosh, they didn't do a good job if we went down 16,
did we. No, I'm kidding, that's a joke. But Al and Semeka are terrific. Al in
particular with all his years of experience, but absolutely they could help us
with Tennessee. Absolutely.



Q. Coach, why don't you like recruiting?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, I think that the part -- I should qualify
that. I love the part when the family and the student-athlete are on campus. I
love that part. And if that's all recruiting was, I would be really, really
happy. But when you talk about these text messages, you talk about e-mail, you
talk about these needy kids that need to be called all the time; when you talk
about the way you try to sit closer so the kid can see you, you know, and try
to elbow your way amongst your colleagues. I'm not into it. I think it's
superficial. And I think that if -- I'm hoping that Michigan State, that we
could be so good one day that they could just know us by watching us be
successful and say I want to go there" and then come visit. And my life would
be a lot happy year and I would probably be a coach a lot longer.



Q. Do you think that the text messaging should be disallowed?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yes.



Q. Do you think that the text messaging should be disallowed and why? And also
saying, I mean, the younger the players I've spoken to love it. They
absolutely love it.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Of course, because their kids, they're silly kids.
They don't make decisions, that's why they're kids. Of course they love it.
This is stuff that takes them away from an academics, this is stuff that takes
them away from responsibility. I mean, all that stuff's got to go. In my
opinion, they got to be kids first of all. They got to learn how to make
decisions and choices. And I just think the whole thing is very silly. It's
gotten to be a very immature thing. And I think that we could do well to move
to a higher ground with it.



Q. It was asked of the players if they had heard from the other Michigan State
men's players. Did you get any advice from Coach Izzo or has he been in
contact with you and how well do the programs relate?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, they relate very well with Tom and his staff.
They're terrific people and they have been with us from day one. Tom has
called many different times. If he hasn't gotten me directly on my cell,
because I don't really answer my cell phone at this time, then he's gotten
Shelly Applebaum or one of our administrators to say hello or we -- you know,
faxes, cards, all those things. We're very fortunate to have a situation where
we have just both want to do really, really well. We're on different journeys.
They're trying to go repeat and we're trying to go after our first time
opportunity. So it's a little bit different story line, but it's still feels
like we're all working towards the same thing.



Q. I saw in the press guide a picture of you with your mountain climbing
expedition.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: That's my husband's.



Q. What went in the decision to do that and is this the kind of thing you like
to do in the off season, challenges, physical challenges?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, it was my husband. I think that you might have
looked at it quickly. My husband John McCallie climbed Mount Kilimanjaro this
summer with John L. Smith, our football Coach and a group of Spartans, maybe
10 or 12. And it was very important for John to get out and do that. Something
he's always wanted to do. I stayed back with the kids. So I played my role out
there pretty well. So it was a great experience. Something that really a lot
of all Spartans across the world got a feel for in that climb. Even on our
shooting chart we have got Kilimanjaro in the back, like a little mountain
where we talked about our climb. And so I always felt that climb sort of
started a lot of what's going on at Michigan State and it was very motivating
to a lot of us.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: All right. I'm letting her go. Thank you very much.

_

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 4, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Chameka Scott](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13905)

### [Abiola Wabara](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16354)

### [Chelsea Whitaker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14506)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to let Kim make an opening statement and then let's
direct your questions as a group to the athletes as we're going to have plenty
of time in here with Kim after we release them. So Kim, if you would like to
talk about tomorrow's match-up at all and then we'll go to questions for the
student-athletes.

_

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, the opening statement is there will be a new
national champion that hasn't won one before, one way or the other, and two
teams will be wearing green. How is that for a little bit of -- I'm trying to
wake up here.



Q. Chameka, y'all were probably both, Michigan State and y'all, considered
underdogs coming in. Who is the underdog now?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It would have to be us, they got a 1 seed.

CHAMEKA SCOTT: I guess we still have a 2 in front of our name but I think the
match-up is going to be good no matter what. It's the national championship
and you want to consider that the best two teams in the nation so no one is
really the underdog. It's just about going out and making the big plays and
seeing who comes out on top.



Q. Stephanie, I know you have seen some strong front courts in Big 12 play and
other parts of this tournament; how does their inside tandem of Roehrig and
Shimek compare to what you played against?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: We're looking at them, and they look pretty physical. Both
of them are, Kelli Roehrig is a big wide body and Shimek is a pretty physical
player so they have definitely have different games. Shimek can shoot it
outside as well. So we got to look and see what their strengths are and guard
them toward their weaknesses.



Q. Chelsea and Chameka, even last night after the national semi-finals you
guys had that even demeanor to you as you have during the whole tournament and
during the whole season. Before the season started did you guys expect to be
here tonight on the eve of the national championship?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Yeah, we expected to, but there's a long road in between our
dreams and actuality. So it's a blessing to be here and we just know that we
have more work to do.

CHAMEKA SCOTT: I agree with Chelsea. In the back of your head you've been
thinking about it as far back as June and as it got closer we started to
realize more and more that it could actually happen. So I think that part of
the success that we have had is just focusing each game one at a time and not
looking too far ahead. Now that we're finally here it's so close and it's too
close to lose focus now. So we're just going to consider it as just another
game and come in with our heads right.



Q. Stephanie, when you were being recruited, Baylor was in the middle of a
20-loss season. Can you talk about what Coach said, what she said to you to
convince you to come to the program and from that point could you have
believed that you would get to this point four years later?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: She just kind of basically embraced me and said it's not
going to be easy, you're going to have to roll your sleeves up and work,
coming from where the program was to where it is now. But I definitely felt
that it was a possibility and I believed in what she said and what she --
well, I believed in what she could do. I knew that she could do it and I just
wanted to jump on board and try to help.



Q. Sophia, could you talk a little bit about your basketball background, just
how long you've been playing, maybe what you consider your strengths and
weaknesses and how much maybe further you think you can go.



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Don't tell him your weaknesses. (Laughter.) We have got
a game tomorrow. (Laughter.)

SOPHIA YOUNG: I've been playing basketball for six years now. I don't know, I
guess my strength is just my athletic abilities and I don't know, hopefully I
get to go farther. I don't know how far I'll go, but, I don't know.



Q. Maybe the seniors could address this. When the season began people were
picking Texas and K State to win the Big 12 and Kendra Webber and Tiffanie
Jackson as Player of the Year. When did you guys sense or really feel like
this was a national championship caliber team? Has it been just recently
during this 19-game win streak or was it early on something you believed and
it's sort of developed.



CHELSEA WHITAKER: I felt like last year when we made Sweet 16 and we still had
some loose ends to get together but I felt like we were going to be a
competitor next year and we had potential to make it to the national
championship. But as far as Texas and K State and everybody else being ranked
in front of us, we kind of liked the view from the back seat. It takes a
little pressure off of you and when you do upset someone, it's bigger news. So
we're used to being an underdog and just like we'll finish the season being
the underdog, so we're comfortable with that.



Q. Chelsea, this is for you. You said at each one of the regionals you just
really can't believe that you're here. This is like a dream. It really hasn't
hit you. Is it pretty much the same now that you're on the eve of the national
championship game.



CHELSEA WHITAKER: It's the same now and that's why I feel like we're playing
good basketball because we're real humble about our situation and we're
appreciative of each round that we make it to. And we don't ever underestimate
the opponent that we're playing and we think that puts us in a position to win
the game.



Q. For all the ladies, if you had one word to describe your coach, what would
it be?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: Tenacious.

CHAMEKA SCOTT: Intense.

ABIOLA WABARA: Intense.

SOPHIA YOUNG: Intense.

CHELSEA WHITAKER: Intense. (Laughter.)

KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I'm waiting for the last. (Laughter.).

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Four out of five. (Laughter.)

_ 

Q. For Abby. Wednesday morning the season is over. You guys are almost -- you
have that demeanor again, that you want to continue playing? Do you want to go
on even after tomorrow night?



ABIOLA WABARA: Yeah. But, it's over and if you finish in a good way maybe
we'll rest a little bit. But, yeah.

SOPHIA YOUNG: Good answer.



Q. Chelsea, what do you guys do with that intensity that Coach brings? How
much does that drive you?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: It drives a lot because if it doesn't drive us then we'll be
sitting next to her, so -- (Laughter.)

CHELSEA WHITAKER: And she's, she doesn't, you know, she only accepts the best
from us and if we're not putting our best out there I'm sure she will tell us,
she will tell y'all also screaming at us. So it just makes us a better team.
And it just drives us to want to do better.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: If there are no further questions for the girls I'll let them go
to their break-out sessions. And now we'll take questions for the coach.

_ 

Q. Who do you feel wears the destiny tag better tomorrow night, yourself or
Michigan State?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I'm not sure how to answer that. I can just tell you
both teams deserve to be in the championship game. It's good for women's
basketball that you will crown a new champion tomorrow. And both teams are
similar in that they play with a lot of energy. They dive on the floor for
loose balls, they never get rattled. The difference is they will play zone and
we'll play man.



Q. Could you -- I know you probably told this story a hundred times but retell
the story about how you discovered Sophia. Was she a junior or senior in high
school when you first saw her and what were your first impressions?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: The first time I saw her was the beginning of her senior
year, she played her sophomore year in high school and because of the
Louisiana High School Athletic Association Foreign Exchange Rules she had to
sit out her junior year and her senior year she played. Jennifer Roberts, my
assistant, is from the same high school, the same area, Shreveport, Louisiana.
Her father was an AAU Coach there, her brother was in school with Sophia, and
when Sophia came over as a foreign exchange student, everyone at that school I
guess recommended to Sophia that she play basketball and she wanted to learn
the game. And she contacted Jennifer's father and he turned her down three or
four times because he wasn't coaching anymore. And he said after about the
fourth phone call his heart just told him he needed to go meet this young
lady. And he went out there and he casually mentioned it to his daughter. And
she said, "Dad says we need to go it to Shreveport, this kid's a diamond in
the rough." And we drove over there and it took me about five minutes and I
said, "Let's don't say one word to anybody." I said, "We need to sign her
before anybody knows anything about her."



Q. What was it about her?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Just athleticism; run the floor, block shots, leap out
of the gym. She didn't know the game, she probably didn't know one post move
at that time. And to watch her progress the last three years we have had her,
she now knows post moves, she can shoot facing the basket, she has tremendous
leaping ability. Her speed and quickness, her lateral speed and quickness, as
you saw in the LSU game last night, she will bait you into throwing it to
where you think an open player is and she will quickly get over there and
deflect a pass or steal a ball.



Q. A little bit off the game, but looking to the future, how do you feel about
the three-point line and the talks of moving that, what have you, particularly
in regards to international play, which you have some history with and it
seems like all of this is directed towards that as opposed to the college
game.



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think three things have changed the women's game from
when I played. One is more television exposure, two is going to the smaller
basketball and three is the three-point line. I like it where it is. I don't
particularly care if they change anything. So if that answers your question. I
don't think there's a need to change. I think that Ed Stites put the three-
point line in and what a great gentleman he was. I got to know him through USA
Basketball. And none of us thought at the time when he brought that subject up
that it would be something we would all encourage and now that it's been
brought into the game, both men's and women's game, it's a welcome addition.



Q. Could you talk specifically about Abby's story, about how you got her and
then how you have sort of put this team together from some unusual roots?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Abiola Wabara is from Parma, Italy. Her aunt Phoebe, and
I'm not seen even sure of Phoebe's last name, but Phoebe was in Truitt
Seminary, she was in school at Truitt Seminary at Baylor University, she
emailed my assistant Coach, Johnny Derrick, as you can imagine, we get a lot
of emails from parents and grandparents who think their children and
grandchildren are the greatest things since sliced bread. But something about
this email stood out with Johnny and he arranged that when Abby came to the
States to visit her aunt, to just please bring her by and let us meet her. And
she brought her in our office, because of NCAA rules not allowing you to have
a tryout, and she had no game film with her, I shook her hand and her hand was
very large and I thought, "Hmm, that's a good sign." And then when she stood
up, she was cut and just had a great body. And we got more information out of
her. I then picked up the phone and called Janice Lawrence, who played with me
at Louisiana Tech and in the Olympics, she played professionally in Italy for
15 years. Abby did not play professionally; she played club ball and I thought
surely she has to have heard of this young lady if she's any good. And Janice
did know her and Janice said, yes, you need to sign her. That's how Abby got
to Baylor.



Q. It was easy to see last night when a question came up about Baylor's
background that you were just tired of the question, you didn't want to hear
it. What is it about these questions that bother you right now?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It's old news. It happened two years ago. Nothing else
can be written that has not already been written.



Q. Does not what's happening now feel good for you?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Oh, we would feel good rather that happened or not. And
I just think the focus needs to get away from there. The focus needs to be on
what we're doing now without mentioning that. That's old news. It's just old.



Q. Everybody's saying that since there are two new teams in here this is a
sign of parity. But what is the parity formula? How much of it is talent
getting spread around and if talent is getting spread around how much of it is
the fact that y'all have become better pitchmen and salesmen and is there some
other ingredient in there that's helping talent get more spread out?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think it's the universities are emphasizing women's
basketball more. They're paying higher salaries, they're getting better
coaches in there. And as you well know in any business that when you have
higher salaries, you have higher demands and coaches are working extremely
hard to build programs now. Players see now that they don't have to go all
across the country just to go to the powers to be, that they can stay at home
in a regional area possibly and let their families see them play. And that's
good for women's basketball. Parity is good for any sport, but it's especially
good for our sport right now.



Q. With the WNBA more and more part of the equation now of basketball, what do
you think Sophia's time in the tournament has done for her stock there?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, I think her tournament and hopefully her career
will basically help Sophia make a living doing this some day. And to think
that she's only been playing her fifth or sixth year of basketball, you have
to believe she's only going to get better and better. As I said earlier, you
don't coach speed and quickness; you recruit it.



Q. You and Joanne both are mother's with two young kids, son and a daughter,
you both took over your programs in 2000. This seems like a lot of
similarities. I wonder how well do you know her and if you could sort of talk
about maybe the similarities between the two of you.



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I don't know what her state of her program was in. I
would think Michigan State was not as far down the totem pole as Baylor, but I
stand to be corrected. I would think Michigan State had had a little bit of
success in women's basketball. So I don't know what kind of program she took
over. I know the job that she's done there has been remarkable. It's just
great. There's no greater feeling in the world as a mother than to turn around
and have your children and your husband sharing in anything good that happens
in your career, because they certainly get the brunt of anything that's bad
when you go home or when you're, you know, at a loss for words after a defeat.
Joanne, the first time I met her, she was an assistant at Auburn under Joe
Champion. And then I followed her career as I do and as anybody does for each
other in this profession on where she was and when she went to Maine and the
job she did there. And she just is a very personable person. The first time I
met her she is just bubbly. She's got a lot of energy and you would think that
you had known her all your life when you first meet her.



Q. What's your routine today and how close are you able to keep it to any
other day before a game this season?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, spending from 11:00 to 1 o'clock doing all this
stuff is not close to routine for us. We won't get on the practice floor until
1:00, something, but we were required to be here at 11:00. So that's not
routine. We will do what's asked of us. We will get off our feet this
afternoon. We will watch more film this evening and have a dinner. We'll try
to keep it as routine as possible, but you know that this is a happening now,
this is an event. And we're going to do our part to promote the women's game.



Q. Speaking of watching film, how late were you up last night or this morning
watching film?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I went to bed at 3:30.



Q. Did you get a chance to watch the second half of the Michigan State game?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No, sir, I did not.



Q. Did you see it on film yet?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Yes, I did.



Q. What was your reaction to their comeback?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It was very similar to ours. They never got rattled. I
thought that they played with a lot of purpose. I thought that their energy,
even when behind at a moment when they might have doubted themselves, they
never let it creep in or happen. And just commendable. I was out in the
parking lot doing a live interview and they hollered that Michigan State came
back and won. And that's how I found out about it.



Q. You've had a few other things on your plate the past month but has anyone
in your world been talking about the new Title 9 policy that's come out from
the education department?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No.



Q. The other day you talked a little bit about coming over from Louisiana Tech
to Baylor as far as Leon starting that. Can you talk about the role that Sonja
Hogg played over at Baylor, because that was the other piece?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: When I was being recruited out of high school Louisiana
Tech had made its first appearance in a Final Four. Sonja Hogg was the Head
Coach and Leon was the assistant coach. When they began recruiting me they
quickly told me their roles. And Sonja was the most wonderful recruiter, she
worked hard at it. She stayed on the telephone, she called so much I had to
tell my mother to tell her I would call her back. Back in those days you
didn't have the limited phone calls; it was unlimited. And she did her job and
was one of the best recruiters in the women's game back in the early '80s.
When we signed at LSU Tech and all of us that played there will tell you, they
did a remarkable job, both Sonja and Leon, at understanding each other's
strengths and weaknesses and making it work. Leon did the majority of the
coaching, Sonja did all of the recruiting and we went to four Final Fours and
won two national championships. So I got a dose of two very, very good people
that were legends of the game.



Q. Speaking of recruiting, you didn't have a lot to sell when you first got
there, the last two years, should it be easier now for you to recruit?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It will open some doors, but it's not going to walk in
and say "Oh, I want to come to Baylor." I mean there's too many great programs
out there. We have continued to get in doors that we couldn't get into five
years ago. But we're still going to have to continue to be selective and we're
going to have to make sure we're not wasting our time in recruiting. I don't
like coming in second and third. Some coaches get a kick out of being in
somebody's top five. That doesn't do much for me. I want to go in there and I
want to get the players that can come and help us compete and win. Recruiting
is the life blood of all college coaches. It is some of the greatest joys come
from recruiting and some of the biggest disappointments come from recruiting.
We will continue to do what we have done. I hope that this will open up some
eyes on the national scene where maybe we haven't been able to go before.



Q. It seems like second best has never been good for you in anything; where
does that fire and passion come from?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think you're born with it. I think that -- I have a
younger sister and she and I are 11 months apart and we're opposites. You're
born with it. I was brought up in a family of middle income, self-employed
parents that provided for their children, did not spoil their children, were
very proud of their children, and I watched my parents work. I watched them
leave their work and support their children at any of their events. I think
back to the days when integration hit, when I was in the second grade and the
greatest decision my parents ever made was to keep me in public schools. And
from that day forward I learned a lot about life. It's a remarkable story,
because when you're in second grade, what are you, eight years old? And you
come home and you ask your parents what's going on? And they explain to you in
as easy a terms as they can on what's happening in the world, that impacted my
life far more than anybody will ever realize. It was absolutely the greatest
decision they ever made for me.



Q. If a program decides it wants to get serious about being competitive in
women's basketball, what advice would you give it?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It starts at the top. You better have a president that
knows athletics. You better have a president that understands coaches and then
you better work for an athletic director that will give you the tools and the
resources to get it done. And yet be patient and let you build it.



Q. Your players use the word "intensity," and I've heard you talk about your
team playing with emotion and you coach with emotion, is that something that
you teach when they get to Baylor or is it the kind of players you recruit or
what combination?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I don't -- I think when I'm recruiting they probably
know that before I walk in the door, my coaching style. I don't think it's
something that you teach. I think it's something that rubs off on them because
of the way we conduct our practices, the way we conduct our film sessions, the
way we live our life. I think the greatest example a coach can be to young
people is what you do. Let them observe you as a coach, don't tell them what
you want them to do; let them observe you. They know I'm intense, they know
that I'm going to challenge them, but they also know I'm going to love them
and hug them and I'll do anything in the world for them. But we have a job to
do on that floor and I'm going to fight for them too. I'm going to fight for
our program. That's the way I was coached, and it brought out the best in me
and that's the way I coach.



Q. A sort of recruiting question to dovetail the last question. There's
apparently legislation in the pipeline that would potentially restrict the
contact that college coaches can have with high school athletes during the
high school year; do you have any reaction to that?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I'm not sure of all of the legislation, honestly. I
leave that up to my assistant coaches, my compliance people and just tell me
what I need to know. They got legislation out there to get rid of practice
players for the male practice players. There's so much -- I don't even give it
a thought until it comes across my desk honestly.



Q. Considering these teams had participated in two of the three greatest
comebacks in a Final Four game from deficits, we may not have a winner until
Thursday. In your mind what has to happen tomorrow night for Baylor to be
successful?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We got to attack their match-up zone. They got to be
very patient and aggressive in a taking their match-up zone.



Q. How about defensively?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, I think we got to continue to do what we have
done. I think it's those defensive principles in our man-to-man that got us
here. They're not going to play a whole lot of players. We may play more
players than they play, depending upon the flow of the game. But we're going
to have to guard staggered screens, we're going to have to guard big girls
inside. We're going to have to rebound.



Q. What is your biggest concern about Michigan State?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Their match-up zone. Just it's very good and we see a
lot of it in the Big 12 with the Iowa States and those guys that run it a lot.
But Joanne learned that probably from Joe Champion, I thought he was one of
the masters at teaching a match-up zone defense. And the thing that I respect
so much about them is they stay with it. I'm not a zone coach, I tend to want
to pull them out if they hit a three or something like that. But they're very
disciplined with their match-up zone.



Q. Emily had struggled in the post-season, even starting with the Big 12
tournament, particularly from the three-point line and I know your strategy
has been just keep shooting it, but was there any strategy involved in moving
her inside more last night?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, Seimone Augustus was guarding her and if you go
back to the very first play of the game, we went right at Seimone with Abby. I
just felt like that we need to challenge Emily, we needed to challenge Seimone
Augustus inside. I feel like Emily, she's a true post player. That's what we
recruited her to be. She has accepted her role when you got a Blackmon and a
Young inside, she's accepted her role that I'll do whatever to help the team.
So she's been asked to play the three and shoot the perimeter shot more. Last
night we put her inside and realized that she could get some space between
herself and Seimone because that hook shot is Emily's shot. And she got on a
role with that and we were playing the zone defense, which allowed her to stay
in the game longer and she was very effective for us.



Q. Could you talk about Emily and just kind of relishing that sixth person
role. She started some last year, but she seems to really like to come off and
give you a boost?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Those kids, they all want to play. They're the happiest
bunch to be around because they love winning. And Emily would do anything in
the world to be a part of it if it's one minute, 20 minutes, 25 minutes, she
is the first one on the court at practice and she's the last one to leave. And
it's become kind of comical because when we go on the road, Emily is like got
her shoes on before we get off the bus, and everybody else has got to get
their shoes on and take their sweats off and it's like she's sprinting out
there because she's got this little routine that "I'm going to be the first
one to take a shot on this floor." So she's a gym rat. There aren't many girls
that have wrist action like that and that strength from the perimeter at that
size. That's many hours of labor in a gym with her dad rebounding for her.



Q. Both you and Michigan State showed yesterday that teams without Final Four
experience can come back from deficits and beat teams more experienced and all
that; what is the biggest reason that a team can succeed in spite of not
having that experience that people love to talk about?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think it's just parity. You've got teams that have
talent on them now. You've got coaches that prepare their teams and what to
expect and you've got coaches that regardless of the score they're going to
keep coaching and challenging their players. I've always said this: The best
teams don't always win, do they? How many times have you seen that? I've seen
it in our conference. We have had teams in our league that have an All-
American at every position. And they don't get out of the first or second
rounds of the playoffs. It's team chemistry, it's believing in each other,
it's believing in what the coaches put into place and the game is just really
getting good for women.



Q. As a player you've won championships, been to the Olympics, had parades
thrown for you; how does this compare personally for you to this?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: The joy I get out of this is watching those Baylor fans
last night and watching my team. That's the most enjoyable moment for me is
just to watch those people experience something for the first time that I've
had the privilege of experiencing in the 12 times I think I've been to a Final
Four. That brings a smile to my face. And not just the people here, but the
people that can't be here back in our community and in our state.



Q. Can you talk about Kelli Roehrig on their team, just kind of problems she
will present inside.



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Let's just talk about both of them inside. Big body, we
saw it in the Minnesota team. Just strong, never gets rattled. If you scout
those players you don't leave a gym and go, wow, they leap out of the gym,
they get up there and I think hang on the rim. But you leave a gym and go, I
would like to have players like that on my team. They know how to win and they
know what to do to win. And when I left the floor at the end of the first half
last night, I thought that Joanne has two special post players in there.



Q. Do you see a lot of yourself in Joanne in terms of where you have come
taking programs that have gone nowhere, five years in the Final Four the first
time, you both are a little animated on the sidelines to be, you know,
charitable?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, now Joanne will tell you that's her Italian
culture. That's what she told me the first time I talked to her. I said, "I
love your personality." She said "Coach, I'm Italian, we talk with our hands."
Well, I don't know what I am, I need to go back home and check. I don't know
the state of Michigan State's program when Joanne took over, and I apologize
for that. I know the state of our program was seven wins. I do know what she's
done the times she's been there. And it's remarkable. And it's very similar to
what we have done. She's done it in a fantastic conference as we have. She has
energy, as I said earlier, when asked about Joanne, the difference in our two
philosophies is she's more zone-oriented on defense, and I was coached by a
lot of man-to-man coaches.



Q. The national champions recently have been kind of built around one sort of
superstar Player of the Year type of player. Are these two teams here kind of
an example of team over that one sort of star or does Sophia kind of fit into
that sort of role?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, with Sophia being a Kodak All-American, I would
think of the two teams that she's probably going to get the most attention.
But I think what you're seeing is two up-and-coming programs whose coaches
have put in their own philosophy and style of play and their players are
playing so hard and you don't have a Player of the Year on the floor, you
don't have a power to be on the floor as far as those teams that have won
numerous national championships, and I think that's exciting. I may not have
thought that when I was at Louisiana Tech and we were in the Final Four every
year, but I think that this generation, this era, for people to turn the TV on
tomorrow and watch Baylor University play for a national championship is
pretty awesome.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: I'm letting her go then if there's no other questions.

_

KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: All right. Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 3, 2005

  

### [Shyra Ely](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14372)

### [Loree Moore](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16270)

### [Pat Summitt](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14068)

### [Shanna Zolman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14374)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We'll start with an opening statement by the coach.

_

COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, obviously this is a really tough loss for our
basketball team and for our coaching staff and all associated with our
program. While I want this team to understand how proud we are of them and how
they represented us all year long, unfortunately, tonight's second half, we go
up by 16 and we know we have to answer runs when you're ahead. I thought we
lost our composure at times, they scored 19 points off our turnovers. Got to
give them all the credit for doing so. But then I thought we -- two things
happened. I just thought our defense didn't stand up to the test of disrupting
their offensive flow and they got the looks they wanted. Their three-point
shooters were able to catch and shoot. Their post people were able to run
their inside action. And at the other end, I thought we got the ball inside,
but we mishandled it, we played in a bit of a rush. And we didn't have the
composure and kick the ball out. So you have to give Michigan State credit.
They had the composure and we lacked it at times and they made the defensive
plays and I thought again we were on our heels. I don't understand it, because
it's not the way we have played to get here. But I'm really proud of our team
for the type of season they have had and I thought Loree Moore was terrific
tonight in pushing tempo and playing the kind of defense she had to play.
Obviously this is a very, very disappointing loss. It will be a long time
before I get this one out of my system. I'm sure the players probably feel the
same way.



Q. Shyra, can you just talk about how you're feeling right now?



SHYRA ELY: Obviously I'm disappointed and really upset with, I mean, myself
and the outcome of the game.



Q. Loree, can you talk about what went on when they made that rush back at you
in the second half?



LOREE MOORE: That was a run. The game of basketball is made of runs. And they
got us on our heels and they were attacking us at every angle. And we just
couldn't find a way to stop them when we needed to. At times we didn't make
some key stops when we really needed them, we kind of turned the ball over on
offense, and we didn't execute the way we needed to on defense. So you give
them the credit, all the credit for what they did and the way that they did
it.



Q. Shanna, did your team relax just a little bit when you went up 16, and when
did you know this was going to be a fight to the finish?



SHANNA ZOLMAN: The first thing that went through my mind was the LSU/Baylor
game. Because that was the same exact thing that happened. And I don't know if
we relaxed, I don't know if we just -- we knew they were going to make a run.
Like Loree said, the game of basketball is about runs and we knew they were
ready to make a run back at us. And we realized that we have to be able to
counterbalance that and be able to make a run back at them ourselves. But we
were just never able to do that. Never able to get over the hump and buckle
down and make defensive stops and be able to answer them back on the offensive
end. But like she said we were well aware of it, we just couldn't do it.



Q. Shanna, is this any more disappointing because it happened in your home
state or on your home ground so to speak?



SHANNA ZOLMAN: I don't care where it's at. It could be in Alaska and I
wouldn't care, it's a loss. Obviously it's all the excitement and coming into
it, yeah, there's all the hype coming in, playing in your home state, in front
of home family and crowd but a loss is a loss. It doesn't matter if it's here
or Nova Scotia, it's a loss. So it's not any more depressing.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Ladies, I'll let you go back to the locker room. We'll start
with questions for the Head Coach. Go ahead.

_ 

Q. Normally when you're able to get a double-digit lead on teams you're pretty
much able to lock them down; why were you unable to discourage Michigan State
tonight?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Obviously they kept coming at us and I thought they were
aggressive in transition and also they did an excellent job of executing their
half-court offense. They got good looks. It wasn't like they were forcing
shots. I thought that they were very committed to setting and using screens,
they read well off of their screens. They got a lot of open looks against us.
I thought our defense, as I said, it kind of withered away at times. We didn't
really stand up to the test. We had to be able to influence how they were
running their sets and I didn't think that our defense really disrupted them
like obviously theirs did against us.



Q. Can you talk a little bit about Shyra's play over the last four years in
your program and her bright future that she has ahead of her?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, obviously Shyra is a terrific athlete. She's
certainly developed her game. I know if we look back over her career and think
about four Final Fours, you got to really respect that. Not many classes get
to do what Shyra, Loree, and Brittany have done. It just speaks to the impact
that they have had on our program. And I know she struggled some tonight and
usually it's when she's trying to do too much as opposed to not stepping up to
make plays. So you got to respect the fact that she was trying to get the job
done and had those turnovers late in the game because they really keyed on her
on the inside. But she's not the only one, I just thought that we played a
little bit more like "I've got to do it." Every player was like "I've got to
do it" as opposed to continuing to run what we needed to run offensively, so
we lost our composure as a team on a number of possessions.



Q. I think somebody asked you yesterday one of the keys to the game or
something along those lanes and you said rebounding and you beat them by 10
and you hurt them on the offensive boards which I know you thought was
important. Yet you still lost the game. I know it's disappointing no matter
what, but does that make it even hurt a little more? You did the thing that
you thought, hey, this is what we got to do, yet you still kind of lost your
composure at key points.



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, what really bothers me is you got to make lay-ups and
free throws if you want to win. Obviously defense and board play are key. But
those easy shots, you got make the free throws. And if you just look
statistically at our free throw shooting then you think about how many lay-ups
we missed. I mean, we had three shots late in the game in one series. So I did
not think that we did a good job of finishing around the basket and hitting
our free throws. And then turning the ball over. We have a turnover on top of
the floor late to give them the go ahead. That was such a momentum for them. I
think probably it put a little bit of even more pressure on us. That's when we
missed those three shots.



Q. You addressed it just a second ago a little bit, but that last offensive
possession you were down by two and you had like three or four chances to get
good shots and seemed like the players thought there was a little bit less
time left than there was. You might have had three or four more seconds to do
that. Would you talk about that.



COACH PAT SUMMITT: I think they were just overanxious. I think they were just
trying to make a play. And I would rather have someone trying to make a play
than avoiding that type of situation. And certainly we had -- all three shots,
if I'm clear on this, came inside the paint. So obviously we had our chances.
We had our chances. But it doesn't come down to just that one play. I think as
you look throughout the game, I guess the things that stand out in my mind is
we didn't deny the middle of the floor. We let them run their offense and get
into a good rhythm. We didn't identify the three-point shooters. We shot the
ball, I think, well at times, well enough probably to win for a Tennessee
team, if we buckled down and played great defense and had more impact with our
defense. Our rebounding was good enough to win, our defense wasn't, and our
turnovers were costly.



Q. What does it say about the growth of the women's game that tonight we had
two teams that never had been this far before, came from a combined 31-down to
get the right to play Tuesday?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, I think it does speak to the parity. I think to have
two teams here for the first time and the two teams here for the first time
are the two teams that will play for a national championship. I think that we
have talked about this for years, but now we're seeing it firsthand. And the
women's game has changed tremendously in a good way when you talk about
parity. And I don't think that this is any fluke and it happened one year and
that's it. I think every year you're going to see teams really battle it out
and probably going it see more upsets in first and second round play.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 3, 2005

  

### [Lindsay Bowen](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16353)

### [Kristin Haynie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15312)

### [Joanne P. McCallie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14490)

### [Kelli Roehrig](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16351)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We'll start with some comments by the Coach.

_

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: That was a very exciting basketball game. I guess
that's saying the obvious. Terrific basketball game. Tennessee is a great
team. A very good team. I think the second 20 minutes really reflected the
greatness and the heart and soul of our team. To come back from the deficit
and to finish the game in the manner in which our team did, and I am certainly
very proud, but not the least bit surprised given what our team has done all
year long. And how they have competed, gosh, in so many games. And I am so
proud of Kelli and her composure, Lindsay and her leadership and guts and
Kristin and her determination. That was one of the greatest steals I've ever
seen in my life. It was about six feet, she was six feet ahead of the ball if
that makes any sense and Lindsay was just competing like she always does and
Kelli just refuses to do anything but attack. So I'm very proud of all of our
team members, Liz Shimek and everybody else also, and now we're excited to
enjoy this until approximately midnight tonight and then it's on to the next
adventure.



Q. Kristin, in your four years at Michigan State, can you recall a bigger or
more important rally considering the circumstances tonight?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: I mean definitely not. This was a great game for us. We hung
in there, we stuck together. We kept our composure down the stretch when it
really counted and our team gave all our heart and effort down the stretch
when it mattered.



Q. Kelli, you missed a pretty much point blank shot with a couple minutes to
go that could have put you all up. I know you know what I'm talking about. How
big was it for you to, like you say, keep your composure and how much did you
want to hit that lay-up there with like 35 seconds to go.



KELLI ROEHRIG: Oh, yeah, that lay-up. Yeah, it was a pretty big lay-up, but
all I got to say is we won. And I got Kristin out here, I owe the world to
her. Because she -- that steal was unbelievable. But I was too open maybe, I
don't know. But, no, it's over. We won. That's all that matters.



Q. Kelli, I think there was a time you guys, it was like the 14 -- 16th time
Tennessee had gotten their biggest lead, there was a time-out and Coach looks
like she really blasted you guys. She got in your face and challenged you.
Kind of give us an idea what that time-out was like and do you remember what
I'm talking about; was she really getting into you?



KELLI ROEHRIG: We -- there was a couple. Whatever time-out it was, we deserved
it. Because we were not playing Michigan State basketball at that point in
time. A time-out is a time to refocus, regroup, and that's basically what we
had to do at every time-out, regardless if she yelled or not. I mean, that
pushes us forward, so.



Q. Kristin, will you talk about just your composure, y'all did make -- I think
you tied for the biggest comeback in a Final Four game especially since
Tennessee has been here and y'all haven't?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Definitely. Our whole team stuck together. Everyone was
hitting big shots, getting the rebounds, everyone contributed in their own way
and that's what teams do and that's what got us the win is our hustle towards
the end of the game.



Q. Kristin, again, you looked like you struggled in the first half; you got in
foul trouble. How tough was it to keep your composure, especially when you
come out in the second half and Tennessee is just pouring it on you.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: For any player it's all mental, you can either go down in the
drain or you can come back, get back out of the drain. You know what was going
on with you. You know, I mean anyone can go in a funk and you just got to --
it's Final Four game, it's do or die so you got to let that go and take it
from there and then just keep your composure and keep attacking.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to let the ladies go back to the locker room.

_ 

Q. Coach, it appeared with about four minutes left in the first half you
decided to take Kristin out then and Tennessee made their move and took
control of the game, did you begin to think to yourself, "Did I do this too
soon" or, "Would I even put her back in, in the first half?"



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Without question I would not put her back in, I was
very, very confident in Lindsay and the guards. And some mistakes were made.
However, I wouldn't do it different simply because the game is too long. I
knew that we were going to have a heck of a second half just the way
everything's been going in second halves, the physicality of it, the way calls
are made, everything about the second half is when it blows up and so I just
felt we needed Kristin then.



Q. What does it say about the state of women's basketball that in Tuesday's
final you're going to have two programs that are not used to being in this
particular position?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, first of all it's an all green national
championship. We're very excited about that. But I think it just speaks to the
fact that there's growth and exciting things happening in women's basketball.
Baylor is a terrific team; so is LSU, so is Tennessee. But it's just very
exciting I think for people to learn more about other teams and how people are
trying to -- teams are just growing and the parity is growing. It's exciting.



Q. You got two teams that overcame huge deficits now to get to the
championship game and pretty much left it all only the floor, do you got
anything left for the championship?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, yes, I think we'll find a few things. It's just
too exciting. It's the last game of the year. There's nothing we can do to
change that. So I just feel both teams will be very ready and it will be quite
a game.



Q. Could you talk about the Victoria Lucas-Perry, her flurry there, she got
seven points?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Tremendous. What a lift. Her shooting, her three-
point shooting, just her confidence, the way she was attacking the basket to
get to the free throw line. That was an absolutely huge lift because Lindsay
had kind of gotten us going and other people need to pick up at different
times. And Victoria was right there when her team needed her most. It was
incredible to watch.



Q. Can you talk about what it means to get a win like this against a program
like Tennessee and a coach like Pat Summitt?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Terrific program, it's an outstanding victory, I
mean it just is because it puts us in a position to play for a national
championship. And we have played a lot of great programs in year. There's been
a lot of neat things going on. So it's just really an opportunity for us now
to play for a national championship and certainly Tennessee is a great
program.



Q. What happened on the technical foul and what did Pat Summitt say to you at
the end of the game?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, the technical foul was from the bench. I did
not get it, maybe I should have gotten it. It seemed to have worked out quite
nicely but it was from the bench and so that was -- I don't really care about
that technical. The way things were going, who cares? You just got to play on.
And then what did Pat say to me? Just good game. It was just, that's what --
just good game.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Thank you very much, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 3, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Emily Niemann](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16352)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We'll start with an opening statement from the Coach and go to
the questions for the student-athletes first.

_

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We are playing for the national championship. We
just beat, in my opinion, the most talented team in the country this year with
the best player in the country. You get down 15, and I'm looking at my
coaches, going "We're getting embarrassed on national television." And I
challenged my players and once again what warriors they are. This is something
else.



Q. Any of the players, the surge that you had at the end of the first half to
tie the game. How much energy did that give you for the second half?



EMILY NIEMANN: It's always good to take momentum into the locker room
especially when we had as tough as a start as we did so that was big for us.



Q. Emily, you're known more as three-point shooter; did you guys see something
on film or during the game that you should be taking the ball inside.



EMILY NIEMANN: It just kind of happened on the floor. My teammates did a great
job of getting me the ball in spots where I could score and fortunately they
were falling tonight.



Q. Sophia, can you just talk about your performance and what it meant to do
this in front of your mom?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, it was just a great opportunity for me to play so well in
front of my mom and my mom to actually be here. I don't know, I think that or
I thought that I had to step up tonight really big time for my team and my
teammates did a really good job of getting me the ball as well and, I don't
know, I just scored whenever I needed to.



Q. Sophia, can you talk about and Stephanie, you too, can you talk about the
contributions from Abby, particularly in that second half run where you all
got ahead and took the lead?



SOPHIA YOUNG: What's your name and where you from? (Laughter.)

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: And he didn't pick us to win and he's from Waco.
(Laughter.)

SOPHIA YOUNG: I thought Abby picked up big time for us tonight and in our last
game Abby didn't that play that much against LSU and tonight she did a great
job against Seimone and keeping her to her average of scoring and I think Abby
just played a heck of a game tonight.



Q. To any of the players, I want to know about what you did differently
defensively after you got that big deficit down 15 or did you do anything
differently? Seemed like your defense you kicked it up after that.



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I don't think they did anything different. I think that we
just buckled down and it was tight at that time at the end of the game. When
the game is so tight you just have to try to make good plays. I thought Sophia
did a good job of coming over deflecting the ball. We go the got a lot of
deflections at the end of the game.



Q. Sophia, I know you guys play for yourselves and all your teammates but you
could you sort of put this in the larger context about given the negative
publicity that's happened in Baylor in the last couple of years, what this
does as far as rehabilitating the image of the school?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, that's really, it's the past and so we really don't dwell
on it anymore. Right now we are just trying to be the shining light of Baylor
and also to the Waco community, so I think that it's we just put a positive
thought in people's mouths and minds about our school and our community.



Q. Johnson was taking the ball to the hole right from the start much more than
she normally does, was that because you had Augustus and the other players so
well covered?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, yeah, that was because she had Augustus, but we had
Chelsea on Johnson and I thought Chelsea did a pretty good job on her. Temeka
is a pretty good penetrator and we tried to stop that. I mean she was, she is
going to get her shots, so we did the best we could.



Q. Sophia, talk a little bit about not knowing who you're going to play yet,
taking the emotion of this game and going into the final.



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, we play for a national championship so it doesn't really
matter who we're going to play. We're just going to go out and play our
hardest and just try to win a national championship.



Q. This is for any of the players, can you comment on playing in front of such
a large crowd like this and does it take time to get used to shooting in a
facility like this?



EMILY NIEMANN: Well, as far as the shooting goes it's a very different arena.
Never been in anything like that before. But everybody's playing in a new
floor, so nobody's really used to it. It was just great to play in the Final
Four in front of all these people, that was fun. So there you go.



Q. For any of the players, Kim doesn't usually like to play that much zone,
were you all surprised at how much zone defense you played?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I wasn't. I know that we feel like the zone would be
effective against them. We tried a different type of zone this game and
thought it matched up better with the way they figured themselves on the court
offensively. So I thought it worked well.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to let you go back to the locker room and we'll
begin the open period and now we'll go to questions for Kim.

_ 

Q. The way that the tournament ended for you guys last year, was that a
motivating factor to make it here this year and be playing in this game?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We mentioned the ending of our season last year
one time in the first team meeting. There's a poster or that's what you want
to call it on our wall that has the score of the game with point whatever it
was, two tenths of a second. It's not been mentioned again until the media
asked about it. Everybody that was involved in that game will never forget it.
And that in itself should motivate you.



Q. What was the strategy to keep them from getting transition baskets; even
when you guys had turnovers and missed shots it still seemed like they didn't
score much in transition?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, we're a transition team as well and going
against each other in practice every day pretty much prepares us for
transition defense. If you look at the players on our team, our post players
are athletic and they run the floor as well. I thought that the key to the
game was changing defenses, slowing it down with the two-two-one, back to the
three-two. I thought Abiola Wabara in our man, the shot Seimone Augustus made
when we were in man, were great shots. And that's what great players do. I
don't think we just gave her any easy looks. When we went to the zone we made
sure we matched up and knew where she was. A lot of Seimone's game, when
you're in zone is at the foul line area. And we took that away and played it
flat with a big player. And no, I'm not a zone coach, but I damn sure like to
win.



Q. In regards to only four players that scored for them tonight, was there
some thinking if Seimone is going to get hers, really try to put clamps on
everybody else or is that how the game just developed?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No, that was just one of the ways to win the game.
Seimone Augustus, being the best player in the country, is going to get her
points. We can't let the second and third player have All-American nights.



Q. Could you talk a little bit about Abby's contribution, what she did
particularly well tonight and what you might need her to do better tomorrow?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Abby didn't get to play much the first time we
played LSU, she played six minutes. And watching Abby develop throughout the
course of the year, I just was very confident that Abby was the perfect person
to guard Seimone Augustus, and guys, she guarded her. She didn't stop her, but
she guarded her as good as anybody could possibly guard her. And Abby, she was
just a very good player for us tonight. Abby's been that way and I said it at
the Big 12 tournament, I said it in the Regionals in Tempe, and Abiola Wabara
is a solid player that nobody really gives enough credit to. But we sure give
her enough credit. We know what she means to our team.



Q. When you were a young player did you ever think the day would come when you
would look up and see 29,000 people in an arena to watch women's basketball?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You know, I did. I did. I knew it was a great game
and the game continued to grow throughout my career, both as a player and as
an assistant Coach and it's just a great sport. And it does not surprise me
the least bit. You need to remember, I played in this arena when it was the
Hoosier Dome in front of 70,000 people in 1984 when they opened it, the
Olympic team came here and so I knew it was there to grow and it doesn't
surprise me.



Q. Can you talk about whatever adjustments you made to get Young some, get
fouls off Young?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, Sophia doesn't have the body that Fowles
does, and she was banging in there as much as she could. I think a lot of it
had to do with the delivery of the pass from the perimeter; it was better, it
was quicker and it was at a time when Sophia was open. In the first half we
were delivering passes just a split second too late. And Sophia would also, we
were trying to bring Fowles away from the basket as much as we could. She
likes to come and help from the off side block and swat shots and if we could
bring her up and get her away, we felt like we could isolate Emily and Abby
and Stephanie down in there. And that's what we were trying to do more of.



Q. You said you challenged your players when they were 15 points behind, what
did you say to them?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I really can't remember. It was probably something
they have heard a million times, just putting a little fire in your belly and
have a little umph about you and don't get embarrassed on national television.
And let's roll up our sleeves. I know one thing I told them is you're not
going to get it back in one or two possessions. You're not going to come down
here and jack threes and get it back quickly. You take your time, we got
plenty of time left in the basketball game.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach, thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 3, 2005

  

### [Seimone Augustus](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14353)

### [Pokey Chatman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13865)

### [Temeka Johnson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13917)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Take an opening statement from Coach Chatman and then we'll go
to questions for the student-athletes first.

_

COACH CHATMAN: I could sit here and dissect this stat sheet in a basketball
game that you guys witnessed like most coaches do when they get up here for an
opening statement, but I think one of my assistants mentioned something in the
locker room that put it in proper perspective and I'll clarify that. We have a
quote when we leave out of our locker room, that says, "You don't always get
what you want, you get what you earn." I'm sure our kids wanted to win.
Everybody here on this stage wants to win. But we didn't do a whole lot to go
out there and earn it and I think that Baylor did. To the tune of 32, 24
points in the paint, we got beat in points in the paint. We got beat on the
boards. We got beat in our half court execution. They got to the free throw
line 21 times. And that right there basically was the ballgame.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the student-athletes.

_ 

Q. Temeka, were you surprised they played as much zone as they did and was it,
did you have some trouble executing against the zone?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: No, I wasn't surprised. Not after we went on the run that they
-- that we did when they was in man-to-man. I'm sure she was going to do what
she had to do to switch up things and try to cut in our offensive flow.



Q. Temeka, were they able to do something specific to limit your transition
game?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: No, not really. I think we allowed them to get second
opportunities with turnovers and rebounds and they were scoring the way they
pretty much wanted to. So it wasn't no transition there.



Q. Seimone, it looked like shooting tonight the angles sort of flattened out.
I was wondering, was there some difficulty adjusting to the sense of depth
perception out there tonight? Did you take a while to get used to the arena to
shoot?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: No. I don't think it had anything to do with the arena. With
the depth perception? Is that what you said?



Q. Sometimes with a wide background it's hard to --



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: No, you can't focus on the arena and how it's made and stuff
like that. It's about on the court. The goals. Once you're stepping between
those lines. You can't really worry about the arena.



Q. Both of you, can you talk about the emotion; is it anger, frustration, you
know?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: All of the above. It's anger and frustration for me.

SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: It's the same. You never are happy when you lose especially
on the stage like this. I can't see anything else but anger and frustration.



Q. This is for Seimone and then Temeka. Did Baylor throw anything at you that
really surprised you, such as Abiola Wabara, she's not been known as being a
scorer and a driver and she came through with some key buckets late in the
game; did that surprise you to see her driving like that or did it not make
any difference?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: We knew that she's a great player and she knows her role.
And she started to step up and hit key buckets for her team and started to
make things happen. But it wasn't any different than any other game.

TEMEKA JOHNSON: No surprise. She did what she needed to do to help her team
advance. She drove, she took it at our -- whoever was guarding her, she played
good defense, she did what she was asked, she was a good role player tonight.



Q. Seimone, talk about the defense they played against you; how were they able
to keep you out of the foul line area where you hit a lot of your shots and
was that some of the best defense you've seen against yourself?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: No, I think I settled for shots too, in the first half. But
in the second half, as you can see, we started to get to the rim, started to
get paint touches, started to get inside. In the first half it was about not
executing and just settling for long shots.



Q. Coach touched on this a little bit, but she talked about earning it and the
fact that you may not have done enough of that tonight. Can you talk about
when things got a little out of sync there in the second half, with the
turnovers and so forth, and what was going through your minds after building
that 15-point lead?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: The first half wasn't really in our mind. We was concentrating
on the second half. And when they got up, when they went on their run, the
main thing was to try to maintain our composure and stay together and not
separate. That's the one thing that most people do when a team runs on us, the
teammates start to separate. Our main thing was to try to maintain our
composure and stay together on the same page.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Ladies, thank you very much. We're going to release them back to
the locker room. Questions for the coach.

_ 

Q. It looked like the transition game was really working for you early. They
called a time-out down 24-9. Do you feel you went away from it as much as they
took some things away?



COACH CHATMAN: No, I will always credit the opponent. And I think it was both
the things you mentioned. It was a mindset, one of the things that's difficult
to create transition baskets when you're taking the ball out of the net.
You're not getting those long rebounds, transition is reduced a little bit
when the speed is closer to your speed. Transition for me is running the
basketball down the court and maybe those minutes will come into play late in
the game, fatigue factor, so there's a lot of things there. But I think it was
some Baylor and some LSU not being mentally tough enough to take what we
wanted.



Q. Whitaker's shot right at the end of the first half, you didn't look too
happy. Did you feel your players should have been better prepared for them
trying that play and also what kind of momentum does a play like that to end
the half give a team?



COACH CHATMAN: I can remember a game, a Regional championship game, I hated to
see half-time come. This particular game we needed half-time because we
totally lost the momentum going into the half. You used the word "prepared."
It's not enough to say, you must do. And we basically didn't get it done.
There's a scouting report, that you create because you watch seven, eight,
nine, ten tapes. And the bottom line was we didn't carry those things out to
the best of our ability. And Baylor was just more aggressive in their attack
and they took what they wanted.



Q. What did you think of Mulkey's defensive game plan and changing defenses
and the way she kept Seimone out of that area that Seimone shoots from a lot?



COACH CHATMAN: I think it's the same game plan that we have seen for 30-plus
games because of our ability to execute at a half-court offense. You see man,
you see zone, they didn't have to go to junk defense because we didn't quite
execute against the zone. We're a team that when someone goes zone, we get
paint touches, we shoot less from the perimeter, and that's something that we
pride ourselves on. But again, I credit Baylor; it was there aggressiveness
that we didn't get those paint touches, get the ball reversals, attack the
gaps, play behind the zone, shoot the gaps into the foul line. Be it a mental
meltdown or physical meltdown, the bottom line is we didn't get it done.



Q. I know we asked you a bunch last week about having not been tested enough;
is maybe this specifically what you guys hadn't seen enough through the years
even though you're a team that did make you play half court and kind of
eliminate transition for this many minutes of a game?



COACH CHATMAN: Sounds pretty good right now. I think we ran into a very hot
ball club, a very hungry ball club. A methodical ball club. A ball club that
attacked us and we had, we didn't respond well. I guess in theory that sounds
like a pretty good point. But the bottom line is, it's a 40 minute game and we
still had our opportunities, several possessions to swing the momentum, to cut
into the momentum, to neutralize some of the things that we didn't do well and
we didn't seize that opportunity.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach, thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 2, 2005

  

### [Kristin Haynie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15312)

### [Joanne P. McCallie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14490)

### [Kelli Roehrig](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16351)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to take questions for the student-athletes first and
then let them go back to the open locker room areas and take questions for
Coach McCallie. And without further adieu, Coach McCallie. Take us away.

_

JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Great. Obviously we're working hard and excited to return
to Indy. This is a great city. We appreciate this city very much and their
commitment to basketball overall and their commitment to the Big Ten
tournament. So it is great to be back. Our team is working on getting better.
We played some great teams. We were able to get better and move on which is a
lot of fun. And we are definitely looking forward to the opportunity tomorrow
night, I know again another great team. All the teams right now are very very
good as you already know. And we're just working on increasing our ability to
put more minutes together and going for that very difficult 40-minute
performance and that's very hard to do, especially under the circumstances
where there's this great defensive teams everywhere. So we're looking forward
to that opportunity. And that's it.



Q. Kristin and Kelli, I would like you both to answer this: Getting here,
seeing all the lights and all the attention and everything you're getting,
talk about your responses to this being here for the first time.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: It's definitely a fun experience. It's every kid's dream to
make it to the Final Four and to get here and it's just been a lot of fun.
There's times where you have to be serious, but there's times to have fun too
and our team is having fun and we're just ready to finally play a game
tomorrow.

KELLI ROEHRIG: Kelli, I agree. (Laughter.)



Q. Kristin, this is for you, of all the fun things you just were talking
about, fun things on the court, you do a lot of different things; what gives
you the most satisfaction and why?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: On the court? I love just making my teammates better and just
passing the ball, making them look good. That's what I love to do.



Q. Kelli, having a team like Michigan State here that's now kind of emerging
on the national scene, how do you think overall that improves women's
basketball and improves this Final Four to have a team like you guys here?



KELLI ROEHRIG: I think it says a lot. Not just about Michigan State, but
basketball, but about the whole university and we had a great season. And we
deserve to be here. I think it says a lot to all the other teams out there
that are striving to be great.



Q. For either of the players or both of you, Tennessee seniors have been here
four times to the Final Four. You guys are making your first appearance. Do
you expect that the experience factor will play any sort of a role tomorrow?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Not at all. It's just another game. We have played great teams
this season. We have had a great schedule and we're ready. It's just
everyone's great and we're great, Tennessee is great, so it's going to be a
great game tomorrow.

KELLI ROEHRIG: Yeah, pretty much the same. We have experience in tournaments
too. Big Ten tournament, we never had gone that far. So look what we did
there. So it doesn't -- I mean experience is great but we have experience
so...



Q. Kelli, you have seen some very interesting rebound combinations in this
entire NCAA tournament run. From what you've seen so far in the scouting
report what does Tennessee do? Are they any vastly different from what you
played against?



KELLI ROEHRIG: I really think our last two games are going to help us a lot in
the rebounding standpoint of the game. Tennessee is a great rebounding team.
And that's really going to be the key for us. To box out and the physical post
players and guards that go in there, so we just got to really box out and key
on rebounding.



Q. Kristin, Tennessee is known for its defense; could you mention a couple
factors that you think might be crucial, things that you need to do against
their defense?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Tennessee is definitely, they have great defense, man-to-man
they're physical. They love to grab and hold. We're used to that. I think the
Big Ten is one of the toughest in the conference, we like those physical
games. It's a blood battle, we love it and we're just going to go out and
enjoy it.



Q. Kristin, can you talk a little bit about how you guys came out? In the last
three halves you guys came out and really set the tempo for the way you want
to play and how important that's going to be tomorrow in being able to
establish your game.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Coming out of the first half and the second half the Stanford
game we got a great start and that's what Michigan State basketball is all
about. It's fun when we do that. We just have to get that attack mentality and
do the same thing tomorrow night.



Q. I guess Kelli, you and the men's team are really good friends it sounds
like so we have been -- will you be watching tonight and do you have their
cell phone numbers and will you track them down later on?



KELLI ROEHRIG: We actually are pretty good friends. Kristin and I have grown
up with their seniors as well and we will watch them tonight and we will be
cheering for them. And I'm sure there will be many cell phone calls after they
win, so...



Q. With the Tennessee program's rich tradition is there any kind of a factor
with them or have you guys played enough teams that you're beyond that?



KELLI ROEHRIG: Well, I think that, I mean, you know, they have a tradition.
They really do. But the thing is with us is that when we step on the court
it's us versus them. Michigan State of now versus Tennessee of now.



Q. To either Kristin or Kelli, after looking at film and studying Tennessee's
tendencies, can you name one or two things that they do, you have to make sure
that they don't do against you in tomorrow night's game?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Well, No. 1 thing is rebounding. That goes without saying,
every game. We just have to be disciplined enough to box them out. They have
great rebounders. They're athletic, they can jump so we got to really key on
rebounding. Then stopping their transition is another important factor in the
game.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to release these ladies back to their locker room.
Please make your way back there and now we're going to start with questions
for the Coach.

_ 

Q. What do you think it does for the women's game to have a team like you
here, new blood in this sort of environment?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think it's a great thing. I think it brings even more
awareness to women's basketball. To bring out different regions of the country
and to introduce the game at this level with different institutions, I think
it's a great thing. You can get more people involved if there's different
teams getting after it and making it. Certainly it works both ways. The
traditional teams like a Tennessee or a Connecticut, that's also helped put
women's basketball on the map too, for what they have done. I think women's
basketball has grown to a point now where now people are looking for more, so
it's all a process, I guess. But if it benefits the sport, that's a great
thing and if we can benefit the sport in some way, that's a big thing and
that's a great thing.



Q. Can you tell the story about how you ended up recruiting Kristin. I
understand you initially didn't want Kristin Haynie?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: That is not true.



Q. Okay. Could you set the record straight for us?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: She would kill me if she hears you say that.



Q. I understand that she was offered by Michigan and you weren't so sure?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: First you have to do a little bit more background there. I
had just been hired on at Michigan State. One thing I said to Kristin was, the
best respect I could show you is to know your game. And a lot of people told
me to sign Kristin sight unseen. Don't worry about watching her; just sign
her. And I thought that was very superficial. And I said to her, if you can
hang with me, give me some time to see you play, because remember I was hired
in June -- March. Sorry. March. Wrong month. March, I was hired in March and I
didn't get there until April. And I wasn't able to see Kristin play until
really July. And so she came by the office and we talked and everything, and
that was terrific. But I said, you know, I haven't seen you play. And then
when I saw her play, I kind of looked at her like, I don't know. I mean it
looks like you got a lot more than that. And when I saw her play and she came
to our team camp in July -- I want to say this is late July now -- and then
she did one of those triple-double things, and I said excuse me, we need to
talk. (Laughter.) Because I finally was really able to see Kristin offer what
she could offer. So I just felt strongly about not making real quick judgments
and in going to Michigan State and letting her know that I understood her
game. And I understood what she could do. She's been a starter ever since and
it's been a really fun relationship.



Q. There will be a new champion regardless this week. I've been asking some of
the others, how important is it for a new face like a Michigan State or LSU or
Baylor to win this thing? Or, are we trying to still rush what is an ongoing
process in the evolution of women's basketball?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I don't know. I think that -- I don't think it's overly
important for anyone to do anything in that regard. I just think that you got
four great teams here. And they're all independent of each other. And I think
it's -- I hope the games are terrific. I guess the most important thing is the
quality of competition and the battles out there. And that's a pretty key
ingredient, getting people to watch the games and I think that's the biggest
issue. I don't think people totally care like an underdog has to win it. I
think that's great. But I think that that's not really the point. As long as
people are exposed to the game, tune in to the game and are educated about the
teams that are here and how the teams got here. I think that's important.



Q. What makes you confident that your players aren't going to be overwhelmed
or a little awestruck by the experience?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, beating UCONN by 16 in front of 15,000 people,
beating Notre Dame at Notre Dame in front of 7,000 people in overtime, beating
Ohio State in front of 14,000, to me our schedule has prepared these kids.
We're not even in Knoxville. I would picture the game like you're playing at
Knoxville, like you completely have all things going against you. And then
what are you going to do after that? I just think that this team needs,
deserves credit for the schedule they played, and how they did with the
schedule they played. They beat Minnesota three times. That's an incredible
thing, I think. Tennessee is a great team. But at the same time these other
teams are really, really good too. So I just feel like they have been through
a lot and they're always respectful but really excited to play everybody and
it's pretty much poetic justice that we would play Tennessee, given the
schedule we have had this year. It kind of, you know, why not bring on such a
great program, and so that's just -- it seems fitting, really.



Q. Question about Kristin. What area or two has she improved the most in her
four years?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, she's gotten so healthy now first of all. Because we
have had two years of bad health. So she's gotten completely healthy. She has
just improved in I think every area. Her anticipation has -- everything about
her game, her ball handling, anticipation, her passing, her ability to run the
fast break, her three-point shooting, her assist-to-turnover ratio, I don't
think there's an area of her game that hasn't taken leaps and bounds,
particularly as she's gone through her senior year. And this is definitely, if
you want to call it a breakout year or whatever, but it's a phenomenal year
based on the close games that she has directed and led. Her IQ in decision-
making is something you cannot teach people very easily.



Q. Was there a point when you realized that this team, that your team could be
on this stage? Was there a particular game or point in the season or preseason
where you thought you would be good enough to get here and to play here?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, we definitely -- it really started in the summer. It
was the summer commitment and workouts which gave me an indication that they
might get serious. And what I mean by that is we have two gyms connecting, the
guy's gym and our gym and usually there's all these guys playing and this
summer it was equally busy; guys, gals, all through the summer. And so we had
fun with our poster, we put out a poster that said "driven" and it had an Indy
theme to it and we put that poster out in September and October. And the
ladies looked at it like, yeah, we all thought about Indy but you put it out
there and then you sort of go to work. And so as the year went on, I think
that there are games that were significant, Notre Dame was very significant to
us. Being able to come back from being seven down with 40 seconds left, having
that resiliency. So that was kind of a game and then we continued to move
along and have games along the way that were just we played steady and we
continued to get better. So I think as coaches we were really intrigued by the
summer, and we really thought absolutely we could do it and then the evidence
kept coming in as we played games. So it was kind of a slow thing and it's
worked out great and here we are.



Q. Could you talk about first of all your journey in getting to Michigan State
in the first place, what attracted you to the job, and then I know that you
were in the mix before this became about Michigan State for the Northwestern
job as an alum, you know, and I would like to know whatever happened to that.



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, Michigan State was a unique story and I was being
recruited by Michigan State, led by Shelly Applebaum was in the room, our SWA
and Clarence Underwood at that time, and the men were going on the 2000
National Championship with Mateen and all them. And the best thing I could do
to tell you the very short story it was the people that made the difference. I
was pregnant with my second child, so there were definitely constraints in my
life. And they recruited me very methodically, led by Shelly and many, many
phone calls. Somewhat stalking us weekly -- just kidding, Shelly. So they just
did everything very professionally and very organized and different people
would call. They worked very hard to call me on my off day, for example,
because of conflicts of interest, they showed tremendous professionalism
throughout. And it really was one of those things where I signed on to
Michigan State sight unseen. When they flew out to see me at Maine, at the
time they did, I mean they had many choices of who they would bring. And they
brought a jet of 10 to 12 people up to do a presentation. And I thought, I
mean they could have brought two people, I suppose, and it was quite
overwhelming to me and my husband. My husband was met with great discussion
with the vice president at Michigan State, Fred Poston, we communicated and it
just seemed like absolutely the right thing. I didn't even know what Michigan
State looked like. I couldn't remember it because when I played there all we
did was see the inside of Jenison. So I didn't know anything about it but
people told me it was beautiful. I was quite happy when I got there to find
out that they were right.



Q. And Northwestern?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: It just wasn't the right fit. I know as an alum that
sounds like a very strange thing so say but the overall commitment piece was
huge to me and I was able to look and talk to Shelly and everyone at Michigan
State and say, you know, you want to commit like the men and here the men are
winning a national championship. And I just felt that commitment so largely
from Michigan State.



Q. Wonder if you can tell me what kind of boost Rene has given you off the
bench; she started a few games and mostly has come off the bench?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: She's our sixth starter. We don't have five, we have six
starters. And Rene has started games come off the bench but her value to this
team right now has been that incredible energy off the bench. She's a
tremendous player, gives us great defensive and offensive energy and just
gives us a competitive, oh, just a competitive boost that is really good for
our team. And so that's why she's been coming off the bench. But we are a team
of six starters, she's a terrific person, very passionate about what she does
and who she is and terrific family, I could talk a long time about Rene. She's
something special and I knew it when I saw her play immediately I was
absolutely thrilled at her frame and her body and of course then I got to know
her so well and that's been a really a really positive recruiting story.



Q. Going back to Northwestern, you want to talk about your senior year and the
big game you had against them and just Tennessee then and the Tennessee now?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Hey, now, thank you for doing that homework. Wow. That was
a good game. I think we lost by three, and I just was fired up. I was fired up
to play Tennessee, and I don't know, I was kind of knocking down a few and,
the way I look at it is we didn't even have the three-point shot back at that
time. So if we got a three-point shot instead of 20 points it could have been
28, could have been 30. But I saw Tennessee note and I couldn't help myself, I
circled it and showed to the players and said, you can't beat this. Well, what
can you do? (Laughter.)



Q. Is there a good insider's edge Al and Temeka can bring to you on your staff
or is there such a thing as information overload?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: First of all, Al brings so much to our staff regardless of
any connection he might have. He has to be one of the greatest basketball
minds I've had the pleasure of being around. It has been so much fun to work
with Al. I can't begin to tell you. I would of to talk to you a long time. But
so I can't say enough about Al and his just his overall influence and he's
allowed me to be more rested, more focused, by having such strength from him,
it's been a wonderful thing. From the standpoint of Semeka. Semeka is a player
turned coach shows she's learning and growing and she definitely has insights
about Tennessee. And of course Al has coached, many coaching insights about
Tennessee. But I think that at this point in time there is such a thing as
information overload. And for us it's all -- it's been about us all year. We
have never overdone any opponent that we have played. And we certainly will
not stop now. So we have done our normal whatever scouting thing, and that's
what we're going to do. Because it's about us, we know what we have to do, we
respect their strengths, and that's what we're going to keep it.



Q. Going back to your journey to Michigan State, I wonder if you could talk
about your days of coaching at Maine, especially since you pledged it and have
you heard from any of those players?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yes, yes. Some of them are here as a matter of fact. And
many of them were at Connecticut. When we came back to Connecticut we had this
huge contingent of former Maine players, which was terrific to see every one
of them. My time at Maine was absolutely phenomenal. It was an eight-year run,
filled with beating lots of teams; Alabama, when they were ranked 10th in
country and we were so thrilled to bring that to the arena. I could go -- by
the way, Cindy Blodgett was a freshman and had 30 in that game. So I got lots
of stories about Maine. Cindy has emailed me recently, has kept in touch, has
played professionally. She's a terrific person. I'm in contact with a lot of
those players just for obvious reasons, people getting married, and so forth,
I mean doing what -- getting new jobs, going to law school. Things of that
nature. But I speak very fondly because Maine was a special opportunity for
me. I was 26 years old, when I was hired there. Mike Plasick was the AD, and
he believed in me as a young coach which I really am grateful for that he did
that. And I was so grateful that Michigan State came along when they did
because I was ready to go. I mean it was time. We had done something very
special and it was time to move on. So it's a neat story, it really worked out
great. I think that I waved to Ellen Garrity a former Maine player as I was
just at practice and there's a bunch of others, but I haven't seen them yet.
Because you know we're in the cocoon, we're part of the circus, so...



Q. When you took over, did you have a set, did you say to yourself, in five
years we want to be here, there; what was the process you had in mind when you
took over?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: It's kind of funny, you always hope things can just go as
they have for us. But all I can really remember is just wanting so badly to
get things pointed in the right direction. And I can remember my first year
thinking, I just can't stand this. I can't stand this. I just can't stand it.
No NCAA tournament, no nothing. And I just remember being very motivated and
very, surrounded by wonderful people, wonderful staff that have all gone on
and become head coaches or whatever, and I just remember being very motivated
about doing better and growing the program. And that's all I can really tell
you. I had no particular year and I think it's probably come pretty fast. This
is pretty fast. It's just, it has a lot to do with the players. Has a lot to
do with Kristin Haynie, Kelli Roehrig, Liz Shimek and Lindsay Bowen; those
four are very key to what's happening right now.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 2, 2005

  

### [Shyra Ely](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14372)

### [Loree Moore](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16270)

### [Pat Summitt](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14068)

### [Shanna Zolman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14374)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to have an opening statement from Coach Summitt,
your questions to the student-athletes so we can let them go back during the
open locker room period and then we'll continue with questions for the Coach.
So Pat, without further adieu.

_

COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, obviously we're all very excited to be back at the
Final Four and to our senior class for this to be their fourth trip. I think
that speaks to the impact that they have had on our program. To have our two
Indiana players be able to come back to their home state, of course Shyra in
her hometown, it doesn't get any better than that when you think about the
stage that they're on right now. I'm really proud of not only these three, but
the entire team.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the student-athletes.

_ 

Q. Shyra, they announced the sites for the Final Four action several years in
advance; did you see this and think, "I want to go"?



SHYRA ELY: I didn't know until last year or something like that. And I was
really excited and from that moment on I knew that it was definitely a goal to
be here my senior year and play in the Final Four in Indianapolis.



Q. Loree, I would like to ask you, were you ever fearful this season that you
were not going to have a healthy day and be healthy, your best for this time
of year?



LOREE MOORE: No, no doubt in my mind. I kind of went with it. Everything kind
of got thrown at me and I didn't really know how to handle it. But I stuck
with it and I knew that some time it will come together and it will work out
for me and I'm glad it happened at this time.



Q. This is also for Loree. Loree, through all the injuries and so forth, the
different things that you do on the court; the defense, the rebounding, the
passing; did they go in progression? Did you learn one thing well and go to
the next or did they all kind of pick up a little bit together? Describe how
that came together.



LOREE MOORE: Kind of those things were I was already good at and it kind of
progressed as my years went on and I kind of got better at each aspect of my
game and I just always wanted to stay aggressive with that. I'm known for
defense and pushing tempo and creating for my teammates and now I'm adding a
part of being aggressive on the offense end and looking for my own shots as
well.



Q. Shanna, shooting is such a big part of your game, have you gotten
acclimated to the dome, to the rims; do you feel pretty comfortable out there.



SHANNA ZOLMAN: Yes, I do now. Coming in, the depth perception of everything is
so vast and wide. That's what these shoot-arounds are for. Just being able to
get acclimated to the rims and being able to adjust to the lighting as well.



Q. To the two Indiana players, could you just talk about the demands for
tickets and what sort of delegations you'll have here?



SHYRA ELY: Well, I had people coming out of the woodwork. I really -- it was
so -- I just left it up to my mother to deal with and she's done a great job
and she's been just as busy as I am with phone calls and everything. I'm
really expecting a lot of like a ton of family and friends and, yeah, I didn't
want to get involved with it because it's just too much and I got too much on
my plate right now to be focusing on rather than tickets.

SHANNA ZOLMAN: Same with me, I left that up to my parents to handle.



Q. Shyra, you've been here quite a few times. Could you reflect upon the
value, maybe it's a cumulative value of Final Four experience and having
performed on this stage before and will that possibly give your team an edge
this weekend?



SHYRA ELY: Well, I think our team has a lot of experience in the Final Four.
Obviously with the senior class being here for the fourth time, and I think
that that will just allow us to not get caught up in the whole Final Four
experience, but rather stick to what we came here for, and that's to win a
national championship and I think that our maturity will help lead this team
through as far as our six freshmen and just getting them focused on the price
as well.



Q. Shyra, when Sidney got hurt you seemed to move inside more. How has that
changed things for you this season the last 10 games or so?



SHYRA ELY: Well, playing the floor is pretty natural to me and it's always
been what I've played throughout high school and here. Certain things happen
whether it's injuries or just a different feel for the game. And I think that
one of my strengths is that I'm versatile and I can play where Coach needs me.
So in the beginning of the year that's where she thought I should play and
with Sidney going out that kind of opened up the floor spot for me. But it's
pretty natural and I feel like that's my bread and butter and I'm really happy
that that's where I'm playing at this point in the season.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Final question? Okay. Ladies, I'm going to let you go back to
the locker room and we're going to start with questions for the Coach.

_ 

Q. Pat, between Chamique and Nicky, how active have you tried to be recruiting
in New York and if it appears to be not very or sporadically, what would be
the reason for that? And also could you tell the story of recruiting Nicky
Anosike and what you saw in her and why you think she came to Tennessee?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, first of all as a coaching staff, we try and identify
the players that we think can keep us at a certain level and hopefully give us
a chance to continue to compete in Final Fours for national championships. And
certainly Chamique was a no-brainer, she was the best player in the country
and obviously was the most influential or impact player on our program of the
history of Lady Vol basketball. But Nicky Anosike was a little bit different
in that I knew that she was a great athlete and I had heard a lot about her.
The afternoon I went to see her play, I had to look at the potential of a
Nicky Anosike. I really admired her drive and intensity and competitiveness.
And when I made a home visit and met her mother and it was a done deal, I just
fell in love with the family and a strong mother of eight children, a single
parent. And I saw in her mom and in Nicky Anosike something that I thought was
really, really special. She's very very committed to her academics, she's
obviously a great student. But there's something special inside of her and I
said last weekend, she's just cut out of a different cloth. And when I put her
in the starting lineup I went to each one of my staff members and I said, do
not let me take her out of the lineup. I'm going to want to, because I want to
see her turn it over and I'm going to see her miss easy shots, but don't let
me do it. And sure enough, when I even thought about it, they said, you can't
do that.



Q. Did you take a walk with her?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: We did. We walked out -- we were on Staten Island and went
out and watched the ferry coming across and just talked about her life and it
was interesting. She couldn't look at me. We did a commercial yesterday and
she couldn't look at me. I said, "Nicky, why aren't you looking at me?" And
she says "Coach, I can't look at you, I couldn't look at you in the visit, I
didn't look at you on campus." And I said, "Well, that's okay, just keep
playing the way you're playing, you don't have to look at me. Maybe one of
these days you will." But just getting to know more about Nicky, and
convincing Nicky that we would take care of her and provide her with a great
family environment at Tennessee and that's no different from recruiting anyone
else, that's how we have really disciplined our program in a lot of ways. But
the family model has been key for us when kids are willing to leave from New
York or California, and come to Knoxville, Tennessee, that's a big change for
them. And we want them to know we'll be their family and their home away from
home.



Q. I had one original question, but something since you just hit on, Nicky,
how much did her mother play into that; it sounds like she recruited you as
much as you recruited her maybe?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: I didn't know. Her mom told me that she watched a lot of
games on TV and she liked the discipline. She's a woman of small stature and
yet she's extremely disciplined and very demanding and challenging of her
family, of her children. And when we talked about academics and we have a no-
mess up-front rule, you go to class; you don't go to class, you don't play.
You're there at the university first and foremost to get a degree. I just
remember Ngozi saying, "Now, when Nicky gets to Tennessee," and Nicky looked
at her like, "mom?" And she just kept on. She said, "No, this is the place you
need to be." And I think she had a great influence on Nicky, but fortunately,
when Nicky came to campus I thought she really liked the teammates that she
would be joining and trusted the coaching staff, but I think her mom had a,
obviously, a big influence on her final decision.



Q. What's it like, and I know you've done this obviously several times in your
career, but now in a Final Four to look down at the opposite bench, you got
two coaches over there that you're probably pretty close to, particularly with
Semeka being so close to your last national championship?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: It was great to see Semeka Randall and also Al Brown and
obviously two people that spent a lot of time at the University of Tennessee
and had very positive impact on our success while they were with us. And I'm
just really proud for them and I am sure they have had the same impact at
Michigan State and been a real asset to the program there and they really seem
to be enjoying it. Semeka, you know, is really -- I was curious to see how she
was going to be as a coach. She was always a real competitive player and tough
and I just, I was anxious to see if she could put those tennis shoes aside and
really think about being a coach. And she said she really likes it. She said
that this is something that she thinks that she could do for a long time.



Q. We were up at the concourse earlier for the autograph session. What's it
like having so many fans, not just from Knoxville but you talked to some of
these fans and they're from all over the country, and then to hear them talk
to you and talk about how you've been able and the Lady Vols have been able to
touch their lives.



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, it's obviously a tremendous compliment to our
student-athletes and to our basketball program. All of our student-athletes
understand that they're role models and they have to decide what kind of role
models they want to be. And they're the first to sign autographs and talk to
kids and you just never know whether it's an elderly person or a child, what
something like that means to other people, and to me that's just part of our
responsibility. Basketball is one thing, but being able to touch lives is far
more important when you look at the big picture. And I think that our student-
athletes understand that now better. I hope they never turn down an autograph.
And I hope they take the time to really speak to the people that they make a
difference for.



Q. Outside of the fact there was a pretty good team in the northeast, New
England, has there been something about getting this 7th championship that has
seemed so elusive, and has it begun to take on the characteristics of trying
to win your first championship?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, I'll say this: I think I've managed to put things in
perspective as a coach, and I think that's important to do, because as a
friend of mine said the other day, this is not always a happy profession. And
sometimes if we're unrealistic about our chances or what we accomplish in the
end for us a national championship or absolutely nothing, I think I would be
miserable at what I do. And I think I have to be realistic so I can be happy
and enjoy the process. The journey is so important, and for that, as I've
walked off the court while I've been disappointed, the disappointment is for
the student-athletes because I know how much they want to win a championship,
every year, every team. And yet the fact that they haven't been able to do
that doesn't mean they're not winners, doesn't mean they haven't been
competitive. If you look at in the last three years what Connecticut has
accomplished, I think they have had the best talent in the country. I really
do. And so sometimes you just have to give credit where credit is due and
continue to persevere and try and get back here and get on this stage where
who knows what can happen. You got to be here for it to happen.



Q. Joanne P. McCallie yesterday said kind of jokingly that when she was at
Northwestern she played you guys and scored 20. My question is do you remember
her as a player, do you remember that game and how is your relationship with
her changed now that she's in the coaching ranks?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, to be honest with you, I don't remember her as a
player. We didn't do a lot of scouting reports. Obviously she got 20; I don't
know how I could not remember that. I think I was more upset with Dawn Marsh
that day than anybody else if it's the day I'm recalling, but she's done a
great job as a coach and I certainly know her as a coach and will remember her
and obviously Joanne's done a great job, so you think about the impact she's
had. I don't think many people would remember my playing days either, but I am
a little older than Joanne so let's don't offend her, don't mention that.



Q. Seimone Augustus is named National Player of the Year today and you faced
her many times; can you just talk about the impact she's had on the women's
game?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Seimone Augustus is -- she's had a great impact on the
game. And I'm not at all surprised by that. Watching her in high school, and I
went to her last home game in which was standing room only, and she literally
just scored in a variety of ways and at will, I mean just with no real effort.
She is -- she reminds me a lot then of Chamique Holdsclaw and still does. The
pull-up jump shot, her ability to put the ball on the floor. She obviously can
go in and post up. The impact she's had on LSU obviously has taken them to two
Final Fours now. And certainly she is one of the most talented players to come
out of our conference and that says an awful lot.



Q. Pat, it seems like every time you reach a coaching milestone the chatter
begins about maybe you should try coaching on the men's side. Does part of you
find it, I don't know if "insulting" is the right word, that seems to be this
thought that the only way you can validate yourself is if you try to coach
males?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, it's not an insult. I mean it's the reality of the
society we live in and I'm not -- I don't think that I have anything to prove
as a coach. And a lot of people think, well, if a female coach is in the men's
game, then you've arrived. I love this game. I love the women's game. I do
feel like that I can have much more influence here on the lives of these young
women and that's what I want to do. I want to continue to help these young
women understand life as well as basketball and learn to compete and to be
able to leave here as confident young women that can make it in the real
world, not just on the court.



Q. Obviously the Women's Final Four has grown in stature since the first time
you were here. What do you remember about your first visit and as a follow to
that, do you think there is a little bit of a shock for first-timers?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, my first visit to the NCAA was obviously in Norfolk
and I just -- of course going to the AIAW Tournament, just to take you back,
there were 16 teams there. And our first trip was my third year of coaching
and we were in Minnesota. And we had a consolation game in AIAW and we
finished third. We lost in the opening game to Delta State. And when we went
to Norfolk, I just remember it was not a happy ending for us. Louisiana Tech
clearly took care of us in that game. But I could tell the difference. We had
a nice bandwidth, there was a lot more media there, just NCAA Championship
meant that we had instant credibility now in our game and we had a lot more
attention from the media and from television and so it just took it to a whole
different level. It was a level of respect, which the women's game had not had
up until that point.



Q. What about the first-timers now?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: The first time, obviously I think now it's, I'm amazed at
being back here a number of times, how much more comfortable I am. I can
remember I didn't understand what I was going into and at that point I was
nervous. And obviously you try and keep that from your players and just try to
prepare them. I think I probably overprepared. I think I -- we probably
practiced more than we do now. We don't prepare any less in terms of our
scouting, but on the floor it's more about getting used to the floor and the
rims and the lighting, same thing that Shanna is talking about, as opposed to
putting in one more play or trying to change things at this point in time. So
it is much better now because I'm not as confused about anything. We just have
our routine.



Q. You were just talking a little bit about the importance of your players
acting as role models. It seems that particularly of late people have been
talking about you as a role model, not just for women in basketball and in
coaching but sort of women in sport as a whole and is that something that you
sort of constantly keep in mind and think of as an important responsibility of
yours?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: I don't think about it that much, no. More than anything I
just want to be Pat Summitt. I want to make sure that I always understand
being successful and winning doesn't make you better than anyone else. I've
been really fortunate and very blessed to have the job I have and be able to
work with the young people that I work with and have the coaching staff. My
coaching staff just doesn't get the credit that they deserve. From that
standpoint it's -- am I aware that I'm a role model? Yes. But all I want to do
is be a good person and a good coach and hopefully a good ambassador for this
game. When I'm thinking about what I do and the role that I play.



Q. Kim Mulkey has talked a lot about your story where you called her when she
was pregnant and becoming a mom. I was wondering if she's so competitive if
you'll talk about the mom side of Kim and what you see with that.



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, I'm sure it's changed her a little bit. It changed me
a lot. But I see her with her kids and they're a big part of this. Tyler, I
mean he's just grown up with the game. He was 14 days old when he took his
first trip with us. And I think he was born on Friday and at practice on
Tuesday the next week. But that's a great life for kids. And why? Because
they're around kids and they're around the game. And he's learned so much. And
I know Kim's children have probably benefited tremendously from it, just to
have the role models that they have. Certainly for her son as for my son, I
mean he has a whole different level of respect for women and for what these
young women have accomplished.



Q. You mentioned that Semeka and Al earlier, for a program that doesn't play
you regularly, do you think it helps in preparation to have a former player
and a former coach from your staff on their team?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, I think just the fact that they are familiar with our
team and our style of play. Of course there's not a lot of secrets when you're
on TV as much as we are, but I think it may be just more what to expect from
our team as an insider's look. But I think as far as the X's and the O's, I
mean everyone knows what we're going to do, and it's just a matter of
execution of players and I don't think that -- hopefully it's not going to be
an edge that we can't overcome. I know they're going to be very prepared. I'm
extremely impressed with Michigan State as a basketball team, the balance.
They got four starters in double figures. They didn't just get here because
they were a good team; they got here because they were a great team. We played
Stanford. I know what they did to Stanford and I have tremendous respect for
this team coming in, our players as well.



Q. Two questions. One, what impresses you about Kristin Haynie, their point
guard, and also with their match-up zone, is more important for Shyra to start
off and get off to a good start or just let Shanna need to start hitting shots
against that early?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: First of all to speak to Haynie, what a great point guard.
You know obviously she can put it on the floor, she can catch and shoot. I
think that the thing that I've been so impressed with is is that she makes
great decisions whether it's to get the ball inside. When she gives it up, she
moves extremely well without it. Or obviously to make a play herself, she
just, to me, she's physically strong and very heady. And I told our basketball
team I think she will be one of the best points guards they have faced this
season and obviously we have faced a lot of good ones. We didn't get here with
one player having to step up early and play and I think that Michigan State
can say the same thing. It's not like they don't have an All-American and we
don't have an All-American. But we have players that can make All-American
plays and we rely on the team. With the match-up zone, the one thing I can
tell you, I'm just glad we have Vanderbilt in our conference. We have played
their match-up three times and they're very, very good at it and a lot like
Michigan State. I think you cannot get impatient. You have to be patient if
you want to play against the match-up. And certainly they have a lot of
patience and we'll have to demonstrate the same patience offensively.



Q. Is there any aspect of tomorrow night's game that you do not want to see
Michigan State dominate?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: The boards. We want to be real stingy when it comes to who
gets the ball off the glass. I think that at this point in time in particular
we understand typically games at this time of the year, or throughout the
season, they're not won on first shots. And we have to be mindful of really
controlling the board play. That's not anything new. Everyone knows. Defense
and board play has just been the trademark of who we are and of our program
year in and year out. So that's going to be a strong focus on the part of our
team and our coaching staff.



Q. I was wondering if you were, if you had to leave the game and retire or
something, not that I'm trying to push you out --



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well you wouldn't be the first. (Laughter.)



Q. -- are you pleased with the direction of the women's college game right now
and would you feel like with coaches like Kim and Pokey that it would be in
good hands?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, certainly I'm excited about the direction that the
women's game is taking and has taken over the years. I get real emotional
sometimes just when I turn on the tube and I see all the fans and just see the
level of play and to see players like Kim and Pokey that are now coaching the
game. To me that's what it's all about. You got a lot of great players, that
have played this game. And they were two great, great point guards. We didn't
have the success I wish we would have had against both of them as players. But
certainly as coaches they have already been difference-makers. What Kim's done
in five years just it speaks volumes to her talent as a coach, a communicator,
a teacher. And then you look at Pokey, and I think that it would be very, very
difficult to lose your mentor to illness and then have to turn around and take
over the team who obviously was very emotional, you know, stressed and upset
about Coach Gunter and do what she did a year ago. And now this year it's more
of Pokey's team and again, they're on the same path, on the same track. And
she's just done an awesome job with this LSU team. So I think that if you take
those two, they would be good examples of that great players can in fact
become great coaches.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Pat. Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 2, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Chelsea Whitaker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14506)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Joining me on the podium is going to be Chelsea Whitaker, Sophia
Young, Steffanie Blackmon and of course, Coach Kim Mulkey-Robertson. So we'll
take questions for the student-athletes first. But first we'll start with an
opening statement from the Coach. Kim, we'll ask you to make an opening
statement.

_

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We're excited to be here as anybody would be.
We're happy for Baylor University.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We'll go to questions for the players.

_ 

Q. Sophia, having your mother come here to watch you play, what has been her
feelings about this seeing you at this stage of your life on the basketball
court?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well she's very excited to be here. She's very excited to just
be in the audience or in the stands watching us play. She's never really seen
a college game live before. So it's an experience for her. She's excited.



Q. Chelsea, what's caused your improvement as a back court player? Is it that
you're healthy now or that you picked up something else?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: I guess I picked up some confidence on the way and I guess
it's coming at the right time. Because my team needs me to play big and take
some pressure off the post game inside. So I'm just a lot more confident now.



Q. I guess starting with Chelsea and maybe the other players can address it
too, did you feel like back in November that you might see LSU again here,
that you might both be here in the Final Four?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Well, I'm sure it was a goal for their team and it was
definitely a goal for us. Maybe it's destiny, I don't know. I didn't really
think that we would meet them or anybody in particular. I just know that I
wanted to make it here and I'm happy to be here and I'm sure they're happy to
be here and we'll just have to see who wins tomorrow.

STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I definitely had a good feeling that we would see them
again. I didn't know where but I know the only place we would see them is the
NCAA tournaments because we weren't in any other tournaments with them, but I
felt like we would see them at the end.



Q. Temeka Johnson was saying earlier sometimes it's great and sometimes it's
tough having an ex-college point guard for a coach because they're such
perfectionist. You have one too. I wonder if you could sort of talk about the
pluses of having her and is she kind of a -- is she tough on you?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Well, she always says everybody wants somebody to be hard on
you in life and that's what I got. So I appreciate it. I want to be better
every time I step on the court and that's the only way you're going to get
better is if somebody is screaming at you every time you're on the court. I
told her that's why I came here. I would never go to a school where the coach
didn't play the position that I played and that's the challenge that I took
when I came here and I accepted it.



Q. Stephanie, after the way that game ended, the first game against LSU, was
there part of you that really did want to play them again?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: Definitely. To come back from that large deficit from the
first half, we found a lot -- we found out a lot about our team in the second
half. And you always want a second shot like, okay, what if we don't have a
first half like that, what's going to be the outcome? So definitely I wanted
another shot and see how we could do without such a shaky start.



Q. For any of the players, we hear all the time that players dream about
playing for championships, being in a Final Four; how different is the reality
of being here, how different is that from what you might imagine growing up?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Well, I mean it's everything I expected and more. I mean
like we always say, we're used to being at home talking about we should there
be, we should be playing them or we can beat that team but clearly we didn't
because we're at home but now we're actually here. And it's just a blessing to
be able to be a part of this and it could be a once-in-a-lifetime experience
and we're all kind of soaking it up and it's just a great thing for us and for
our university and this program.

SOPHIA YOUNG: Good answer. (Laughter.)



Q. Sophia and Stephanie, can you talk about, I know you have only been out
here one time but what was the arena like and obviously it's a big open air;
does that affect your shot or will you get enough time in here that you can
get over that?



SOPHIA YOUNG: It's pretty open. I don't know. I think I like it. I like the
court. I like the court, there's a lot of lights. I think it's going to be a
really good place to play. I just need to get a little more shooting done and
I should be all right.

STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I agree. I'm not bothered by the court. I think any court
you play on you want to be familiar with it, but I like the setup and I think
it's going to be a good atmosphere.



Q. In light of the tragedy a couple years ago, what do you guys think this
making the Final Four has done to boost the morale at Baylor among not only
the basketball program but maybe the school in general.



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I think it's really brought the community together just to
see how many people actually come out and support and are so excited about
something in Waco with the women's basketball team, it's been great. We have
been received so heavily and it's just been awesome to get every sen- off more
and more people. Just excited. Getting e-mails, things like that. It's just
wonderful to turn it around and when people think about Waco they can think
about something positive.



Q. Sophia, you had a rather somewhat unorthodox route to Baylor from your
hometown. I wonder if you could just talk about what you knew about Baylor,
when you first heard about Baylor and maybe how Kim charmed you into coming
there.



SOPHIA YOUNG: I found out about Baylor my senior year in high school and that
was the first time I heard about it. I didn't hear anything about it before my
senior year. And through Coach Robertson, Coach Mulkey found me. I don't know
that she came to take a look at me and I guess she liked what she saw. And
then she gave me a scholarship.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: I'm going to release the players then. All right. For the
players. This is the last one.

_ 

Q. Chelsea, if you could just talk about the fact that you saw LSU in person;
what struck you about their talent and what you think they're biggest threat
is tomorrow.



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Well, transition game is probably the best part of their
game. Any given time any given player can just take the ball and start running
down the court and starting the break and everybody else will fill in. And
they're a very talented team and they have a lot of athleticism and they're
just a tough match-up, they crash the boards hard and do all the little things
that makes them a Final Four team.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: All right. We're going to release these ladies back to their
locker room. Now we're going to continue with your questions for the Coach.

_ 

Q. Could you talk about your recruitment of Temeka Johnson when you were at
Tech and are you surprised by the way she's improved and how good she is now.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No, I'm not surprised. I saw Temeka Johnson
throughout her high school career and she reminded me a lot of myself. She has
a quick first step off the dribble. She has unbelievable penetrating skills
and she makes all the players around her better because she delivers passes
when they need it. My recruitment of her was I recruited her while I was at
Louisiana Tech and the time she was coming out of high school was when I made
the move to Baylor and she chose LSU.



Q. The way last season ended, I know what the feeling was; how long did it
take you to kind of put that behind you and then regroup and start looking
forward into this year?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You never forget it, but I think probably when I
got back on the court with the team this year, I like to tell this story,
throughout the summer I had watched my children play little league softball
and little league baseball and I couldn't handle some of it. I just still
relived the moment and I just never felt that there was a finish to the
season. It took me a long time to get over it. I'll never forget it. But I
think that when we got back on the floor this year and could put a basketball
in our hands...



Q. There will be a new champion this year with Connecticut having been
eliminated. But there's a chance for yourself, for Michigan State or even LSU
to put kind of a new face on college basketball; do you all kind of understand
that as well as just winning the championship itself?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, we understand that there will be a new
champion. I don't think any of us in the coaching profession think to next
year; we're thinking about the next game. The game is getting good. There's so
many teams now that are good. And that's good for women's basketball. It draws
an interest from programs and from regions of the country that weren't back
there when I played. And parity is good for our game. And you're going to
always see the Tennessees and those guys because they committed long ago when
nobody else did commit and they got a legendary Coach, but it's good for some
us new folks to get a little bit of exposure.



Q. Could you talk about just how difficult it is to cover Seimone Augustus and
maybe just a little bit about her versatility out there.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: There are have very few girls in the game as you
watch it that have the ability to elevate and shoot it right in your face.
Seimone Augustus is that type of player. I said it when we played them back in
November, that she's the best player in the game today. And my mind has not
changed. She won the Wade Trophy today and rightfully so. She has got a team
that is so difficult to guard with, in my opinion, the best freshman in the
country, and fifth year senior point guard, and Seimone you're not going to
stop her, she's too good a player. What you hope to do is that you don't let
those around her have All-American nights. The girl is good and I watched her
when she was at Capitol High School in Baton Rouge. She just has elevated that
program to where it is today.



Q. You talked about how you really don't stop Seimone but one thing you had
you didn't have the first game is Abby playing a lot more. How excited are you
just to see what she might be able to do to at least slow down Seimone
Augustus a little bit?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Abby played six minutes in the game when we played
LSU earlier in the year. We were still trying to find our identity, who our
rotation of players were going to be, and Abby in mid-season was inserted into
the lineup and she's made it difficult to let anybody else get any minutes
because of her defense. Abby is very physical, she has the same size that
Seimone has. She just is the type of kid that her defensive effort and
intensity really spreads to the whole floor with the other kids on our team.
They have taken great pride that their defense has brought them to this point
and I think it's going to be a very good match-up. My concern is if Abby gets
in trouble, then what am I going to do.



Q. Will you talk about the difference maybe you felt between being a player in
the Final Four and now as a head coach in the Final Four.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: The differences are all these wrinkles and this
gray hair up here. When you're a player, you're in control of the game, you
have the basketball in your hands and you feel very confident. As a Coach you
can teach and show them so much, but when you get out there on that sideline,
they got to go do what you taught them. And that's a big difference for me,
whether we're in the Final Four or playing any game is that I always like to
have that basketball in my hands. The excitement for me as a coach, a lot of
coaches get excited because it's the ultimate in our game is to take your team
to a Final Four, and I'm no different than in that I feel that way. But
honestly the excitement for me, after having been in 12 of these, is the Waco
community, is the Waco community and the fans and our school and these
players. The excitement in their eyes and what it means to all of us or all of
those people excites me more than anything.



Q. You mentioned your own Final Four experience both as a player and as an
assistant Coach. Can you talk a little bit about, is there anything you can do
to prepare your kids for what they're going to experience when they step out
there tomorrow night in front of 28, 29,000 people?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Nothing more than maybe casually telling them
you're going to play in front of 30,000 people, you're going to have a lot of
media ask you questions over and over and it will be the same redundant
questions. Things like that. But as far as playing on the floor, I don't think
you overcoach and I don't think you overemphasize, it's another basketball
game, you're just on a different stage. And I know that when that clock ticks
and it's time to go play, I don't anticipate them playing any different than
they have to this point. They are very mature and they have a sense of
calmness about them. We have seniors on this team that just don't get rattled
anymore. We have a demeanor about us that when we walk off that floor, if and
when we get beat, we're going to shake the opponent's hand and say you
deserved it because you played better. And that's kind of been their approach
the last month of the season.



Q. Is there any one aspect of the game that you really do not want LSU to
dominate tomorrow?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Transition. Running the floor. They just -- and
that starts with Temeka Johnson. I said this all along, Seimone Augustus is
the best player in the country, Temeka Johnson is their MVP. That young lady
gets a ball and even on made buckets they're running. The opponent scores,
they're throwing it in quickly and they're running. I don't know how you stop
that. When you have a point guard that that is their game and that's the way
they play, it's very difficult to eliminate that part of their game and that
concerns me a whole lot.



Q. You're saying how excited everyone is in Waco now. Can you take it back two
years to right after the tragedy on the men's side, what it was like for the
women's program and what it took during those past couple years to get to
where you guys are now?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, as I said, I'm so tired of talking about the
men's tragedy, that was two years ago. But I'm going to answer your question
in that that did not affect our basketball team and what I was hired to do.
One player on our team I think knew Patrick Dennehy. And it happened at a time
during the summer months where there's not a whole lot going on probably in
the sports world, so it was really magnified. It was negative for our
university, but the thing that was most important to me, if my players were
okay and my players' families and their parents were okay, then I was okay.
And we were okay. And we started playing basketball and won and got to the
Sweet 16 and it erased all of that. Our men's national championship in tennis
erased all of that. Two Olympians in track and field erased all of that. We
don't -- we're beyond that. It's never even brought up around our university
until we're asked from the media questions about it. It's not going to
identify Baylor University. There's too many great alumni, there's too many
prominent people from the State of Texas. We are the oldest institution of
higher learning in the State of Texas, and one tragedy is not going to
identify our university and that's the approach I took and that's the approach
our players took.



Q. I know it was early in the year, but what did you learn from the LSU game
or about your team or what maybe from that game helped you the rest of the
year?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I learned that we're not too bad. When you can be
down 20 to LSU in your opening game and come back and have the ball in your
hands to win it and you just didn't execute, we're going to be okay. I really
felt that way, we are going to be okay. We hated to lose, as all competitors
do, but I thought, wow, we hung in there with them and we played as poor as
you could possibly play in the first half. Now whether we played poor because
LSU made us play poor, it doesn't matter. We fought and we came back and had
the ball in our hands down one and we just didn't get it done. And I just left
there feeling as good as you could feel after a loss.



Q. Did you think you might see them again back here?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Never really put much thought to it. Our focus was
Big 12, Big 12 tournament, and see what happens in the NCAA tournament.
Certainly you knew they were going to be the top team in the country all year
but just never really thought we might match up with them again. You don't
think like that throughout the course of the year.



Q. How much has the sort of off-court experience of the Final Four, than
everything else, changed from your days as a player and your days as an
assistant Coach to today?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, it's become a big event now. It's a
happening, if you want to say it that way. When we played in Final Fours, it
was certainly big and in our world and in our eyes at that time and in the
early '80s, we were a pretty dominant program. There were a handful of
programs back then that you knew were going to be in the Final Four every
year. And now the interest is so large and planned in advance and you have so
many teams that are capable of getting here that it really, it's magnified
now. And there are a lot of outside things that you have to do that are
mandatory. We didn't have those back when I played. You just showed up for the
game and the only game that was really televised was the championship game.



Q. I apologize for asking this in advance. This is water under the bridge I
know, but could you just talk a little bit about what happened at the end of
your stay at Louisiana Tech. I know you're happy at Baylor now, but just the
idea that someone with such an institution at that school, that they didn't --



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: That's kind of what I was wondering. (Laughter.)
No, listen, it's pretty simple: It doesn't matter what you hear, it doesn't --
look, I spent 19 wonderful years of my life there. 38 years of my life were
spent in one state. No matter where my career takes me I'll always be a
Louisiana girl. But I am very, very loyal, I am loyal to a fault. And I felt
that after 19 years of being at Louisiana Tech, and Leon stepped aside so I
could inherit that program and I will never forget that, I felt that I was
worthy of a five-year contract. It's the standard in the business. I had
turned down three head coaching jobs with significantly more pay to stay at my
alma mater. They started out with a three-year contract, they felt they were
doing me a favor by offering me a four-year, I was hurt and I left. That's the
story. Nothing more. And thank God for unanswered prayers.



Q. Labeling yourself a Louisiana girl, I'm wondering if you've given yourself
-- have you thought at all about competing against your native brothers and
sisters tomorrow?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: What you got to understand is LSU is 30 minutes
from my home growing up. And I'm going to give you a little history here,
okay? In Louisiana, okay, Tangipahoa Parish -- you're going to ask me how to
spell that right -- Tangipahoa Parish is where I grew up. 30 minutes from the
LSU campus, family, friends, you just grow up, that's all you hear. I could
sing their fight song for you. So there will be lots of folks out here
tomorrow that love me regardless of where I am coaching, but they watched me
grow up. And I recruited Pokey Chatman when I was at Louisiana Tech. LSU was
all I ever heard of growing up until I left to go to Louisiana Tech to play.
Louisiana Tech was four and a half hours from my home. The easy decision for
me would have been to go to LSU and family and friends could watch me play.
But at the time the right decision was to go to Louisiana Tech. And so playing
against them, the only thing about playing LSU that bothers me is they're
going to get to go home and eat crawfish and I'm not. (Laughter.) But I'm
going to have some of my folks come up in a couple weeks and bring crawfish
and we're going to have a crawfish boil and then my appetite will be
satisfied.



Q. Can you talk about in contrast how LSU handled the deal with Pokey when
their job became open. You said the other day that there should have been no
question in their mind that she should be the coach. It seems like you really
feel like they handled that the right way and making her the head coach and
keeping her around.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You're absolutely right. That lady spent as many
years there as I did. That's a no-brainer. If you're the athletic director you
walk down the hall and say, "Sue Gunter, who do you want?" She says "Pokey
Chatman," end of conversation. They handled it beautifully, just the way it
should have been.



Q. You mentioned recruiting Pokey, can you talk about what you saw in her as a
player and if some of those same attributes have carried over to her coaching
style?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You saw a very confident young lady, you saw a
Temeka Johnson-type of player. Pokey didn't have the talent around her that
Temeka does at that time when she chose to go to LSU, but in high school, she
was from the Hahnville area and she just was a competitor. She made those
around her better. She was very vocal and a leader out there on the floor.
Everything that you look for in a point guard. And she was a -- she was one
that we fought hard to try to get. She wasn't leaving south Louisiana.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 2, 2005

  

### [Seimone Augustus](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14353)

### [Pokey Chatman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13865)

### [Temeka Johnson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13917)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach Chatman, we'll start with you, please, for an opening
statement.

_

COACH POKEY CHATMAN: I guess I'll start with stating the obvious but I think
it can't go without mentioning we're ecstatic to be here, like any Coach. But
first and foremost, I think for us, we're fortunate enough that we have been
able to hang our hats on the defensive end of the floor. Thinking back I had
more questions asked about the previous match-up with Baylor than I had asked
about anything. This is what we have taken from the previous match-up: Nothing
and everything. And my point in that is that Baylor was an extremely talented
team in November, and with the leadership of Kim and her go-to players,
obviously it starts with their post tandem, there's so much more to the method
of their madness. It obviously starts with Sophia and Blackmon, but there's
complimentary players surrounding them from the point to the shooters; Niemann
coming off the bench. For us it's going to take a tremendous defensive effort
if we are to be victorious. And I go back to our previous outing with Duke. It
was nice to see our kids go down by 12 and not panic and hang their hats on
the defense end of the floor and go to work on the boards and to lead to us a
victory. Thanks.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going with questions for the student-athletes first.
Please, give me a high sign.

_ 

Q. For Temeka, I would like to ask now that the team has gotten back here, you
truly made it your goal to get back here this year. Will the experience of the
Final Four be a little bit easier? Do you have some better ideas of what to
expect and how to especially prepare for the semifinal games?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: I think we will compare, we were preparing for the games
different than we would have prepared any other year. I think it's all the
excitement of everything else away from basketball has kind of sunk in and
we're settled with that part. But as far as us comparing everything, it
doesn't change, we have always prepared the same for every basketball game
that we have played.



Q. Temeka, how different are you all from the game in November? What are some
of your strengths now maybe compared to then and things like that?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: We have grown even more as a team, as individuals, Sylvia is
no longer a freshman anymore. Next to her name there is the "FR, but to us
she's grown so much that she's really not a freshman. All our other freshmen
are no longer freshmen. They're a part of our season and we're all pretty much
on the same page. We have grown collectively as a whole and learned a lot from
each other.



Q. Temeka, could you just talk about Sylvia and I guess her process when she's
been here obviously it's all new to her, even know it's not new to y'all. Have
you guys been holding her hand, talking about the things outside the game,
making sure she's focused on the game?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: We're not putting a lot of pressure on her compounding
basketball into every second of the day. We're not really holding her hand
either. We're allowing her to grow as a person. We just along the way we're
right alongside her whenever she needs us she knows that we have her back.
Anything that she needs we're right there behind her. But for the basketball,
I think Seimone and I do a good job of talking to her and allowing her to know
that it is okay for her to make a mistake and just be free. We have her back,
no matter what.



Q. Seimone, I think you said after that first Baylor game that it felt like
March out there. Obviously you saw that this was the kind of team that could
be at this level. What are some of the things that they do real well and match
up with you guys real well with.



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: I think you look back to what Coach said. They have a good
inside tandem as well as they have a great role players that know how to play
their roles. They get the ball inside as well as when it's dished off from the
post they spot up and knock down shots. So it's going to be difficult to
defend especially on the inside but it's going to take a team effort to stop
that tandem.



Q. Seimone, I would like to ask you also, getting here, last year, getting to
the Final Four was one thing. Now that you're back, what do you feel might be
different or are some things a little more relaxed or even a little more
focused than from last year's experience?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: I think we're more focused on what we have to do. We felt
that we have some unfinished business here some things that we need to get
done here. So it's more putting everything into perspective and understanding
that we enjoy being here, we are glad to be here, but we have a lot of things
that we have to do in a short period of time.



Q. This is for anyone: How much do you guys joke about the Miami clique, the
three players you have, kind of the Miami Pipeline, and do you joke with them
at all?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: Yeah, we do joke with them, only because they mess with us,
especially people from Louisiana. They say they have the best things in
Florida from water to food to entertainment. So we normally mess with them,
but it's all in fun and games. They're great players. They're also great
teammates and they keep everybody focused as well as we have times when we can
relax and have fun.



Q. For Temeka and Seimone, after the first meeting, the comeback that Baylor
made, their Coach and some of their players explained that as a team that
plays with emotion. Maybe you could just talk about the emotion that's within
your team and what we'll see as far as the semi final game.



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: I was trying to take a pass on that. I think that they are a
great team and they fought back and in November, and but I think I think we
had the same fire, that same desire that they have. Everybody wants to be in
the national championship game and we understand that it's going to be a tough
battle for us. But like Coach said, we had to come back from 12 points down in
that Duke game and that showed a lot of character and composure that we kept
in order to fight back. So that speaks a lot for our team as well, to be able
to come back on a great team like Duke and win the game.



Q. Temeka, in your judgment, what's the most important thing or things a
player has to do to be a good point guard at this level?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: Lead the best way that she knows how in every aspect of it. Be
the leader that she's supposed to be and pretty much do whatever she has to do
to help take her team as far as she is going to take them and get all of them
involved. Help do whatever it takes to make her team successful.

SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: As well as be five foot three. (Laughter.)



Q. Temeka, it's I guess a cliche in sports to say we're not worried about the
other team; we're just worried about ourselves. But is that a philosophy that
this team really sticks to and I know whenever we ask about the opponent you
guys just kind of shrug it off. I mean you're just focused on what you guys
need to do and that kind of thing.



TEMEKA JOHNSON: Pretty much. And that's not any disrespect to the opponent.
But I think if we focus on what we have to do, then everything else will fall
into line. The more we execute well defensively and offensively, the easier
things come for us. So I think it's easier, it's best that way for us to
concentrate on ourselves.



Q. Can you talk about Seimone's impact on the team, she's just named National
Player of the Year?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: I'm glad she's on my team. I can tell you that. I think
everything has been said about her. What you see is what you get. The person
that she is, the player that she is, what you see is what you get basically.
She helps out the team tremendously. She takes off -- I know she takes the
pressure off of me. She helps in that aspect. She opens up a lot of things for
other people because of the attention that she gets and her minutes, because
all the people that's drawn to her. I'm glad that she was named National
Player of the Year and that she's just got the trophy. She deserves it more
than anyone that I know.



Q. Seimone, do you think in that first meeting with Baylor that there was ever
a time when both teams were playing their best against each other because you
guys had the stronger first half and they had the stronger second half. Did we
get to see the best of play Baylor versus the best of LSU at the same time in
that game?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: I don't think so. The best consists of 40 minutes. But like
you said it was two different halves for each team. A good half for us, as far
as getting out executing and second half was kind of sluggish and they took
advantage of everything. But I wouldn't say it was the best. It was early on,
it was November, and a lot of players had to grow within our team and within
their team as well as people had to find their roles. So I can't -- I don't
think it was their best or our best. It was too early to really say, you know,
it was too early.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to let these ladies go back to the locker room now.
Now we'll continue with questions for the Coach.

_ 

Q. I wonder if you could talk a little about Kim Mulkey, tried to recruit you
I believe when she was at Louisiana Tech and you guys were both point guards
from the Bayou State. Can you sort of talk about your similarity as much as
you could remember her as a player. Your similarities as players and maybe
your similarities and/or differences as coaches.



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: I think that the similarities as a player is extremely
easy. Oftentimes I'm asked to compare myself to Temeka and I wish I could.
Only in my dreams. But when I think about Kim, we weren't blessed with height;
we're both five four, we weren't the quickest. Didn't quite have a vertical.
But we could think the game at a pace that usually helped us to defeat our
opponent. You find something, mental as to physical as far as to one. And I
think Kim was that type of point guard. You put players around her, she made
them better. They fed off of her. She ran her team. And I think those are some
of the things that I had to do. I was limited athletically, so I had to learn
how to think the game fast, think the game effective. And there in lies the
difference. And it always seemed that I was fortunate enough to be on teams
that were successful and I would like to credit some of that to my ability to
grow with the team, but also to develop some of that talent around us. And
that's where I see the similarities. I think in terms of coaching, we're both
in a Final Four, so we figured something out that we're doing right. It's a
different approach. Kim's maybe a little bit more animated than me; I need to
conserve some of that energy. But the bottom line is she's here and I'm here,
so we're doing something right.



Q. Same question I just asked Temeka about paying attention to yourselves
instead of the opponents. You said at the beginning that what did we learn
from that first match-up and you said nothing. I mean is this team even more
than most a team that tries to set the tempo and dictate the way a game is
going to be played and focuses on what you guys are going to do first?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Let me finish the second half of that quote. I said we
learned nothing and we learned everything. And the point is it was a long time
ago and Baylor was a very good team in November. And obviously we are here in
Indianapolis so they're a great team now. The focus, it's always 75 percent of
yourself because that's what you can control the most. We're going to scout,
we're going to get our 10, 12 tapes in, we're going to break it down. But I
think you can't forget about yourself in that process. But I want to make sure
you got that part of it. We learned a lot. I look at the schedule that
Baylor's played, I look at the schedule that we have played, and when you get
kids at this level the only thing you can do is improve and again a lot of
questions regarding Kim and her leadership and obviously that trickles down to
those players and that's why they're here.



Q. Pokey, Sylvia's had such great impact on games defensively. I was curious
as to why you continue to wait to put her in the game and don't start her.



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Well, if someone would have told me 10 months ago this
would be the case, I probably wouldn't have believed them either. But I know
all of Sylvia's basketball life she's been taught to stay near the basket,
play behind in the post, she knows how to get Sylvia open, not her teammates
and that was something that she had to learn. We didn't exactly give our
freshmen an opportunity to grow early. We kind of threw them at the wolves
with our preseason schedule. And with the leadership of Wendlyn and Tillie
Willis, it was an opportunity to bring Sylvia along at a comfortable pace. And
then what we noticed going in is when we brought her along at a comfortable
pace, we're subbing her at a time when she's fresh and she brought a little
something extra to us and it worked to our advantage. So for us it's been a
plus that we had a senior that could start the game and then come off the
bench with someone like Sylvia.



Q. With the elimination of Connecticut there will be a new champion this year
although it could be Tennessee winning a 7th. The three other coaches,
including yourself, do you all understand this is a big chance to put a new
face on women's college basketball?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: I guess I'll understand that if I have to contend with
that when all is said and done. You work so hard and you work so long to get
to this moment. And I know it's extremely difficult for you to understand
that, but the moment is Baylor. It's not about tradition, it's not about the
number of titles someone else is holding. I hope we're discussing that.



Q. Could you just talk about your team's ability to handle all of the
ancillary stuff, especially on a day like today. With autograph sessions and
how much has last year's experience helped in that process and I guess just
your thoughts on viewing it or is it different from last year?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Obviously it helps because so many of the kids have been
here before and they're able to disseminate some of that information to the
young kids and give them a prelude to what's to come. It's nice when you have
your peers that can do that. But fortunately for me I'm blessed with some kids
that are really good about perspective. They're not really high, they don't
get too low, they're very methodical and business-like in their approach. And
honestly, a day like today is perfect for these kids. They're so anxious. They
have been here, they're chomping at the bit to play. And it gives them an
opportunity to break up their day and not get too worried about what's to take
place tomorrow. So it's extremely easy at this point. The closer you get to
it, the distraction related to a championship opportunity is a welcome thing.



Q. If you could, talk about Seimone Augustus and for a player that scores that
much she seems to be an unselfish player that likes to include her teammates
and involve them in the game.



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: You said it. And for me it's great that Seimone can be
the recipient of so many individual awards and at the same time lift a team,
and that's the team on the floor, the team on the bench, the team at LSU, the
team, our community. And you think about it, she's a three player, she doesn't
have the basketball in her hands a large percentage of the time, and to me
that's what separates her from being a good player to being the great player
that she is. She understands how to move without the basketball. She
understands how to get people open. She understands "I can average six less
points and have an opportunity to compete for something special. " And all
those things go unnoticed. So for me, I am enjoying the fact that she's being
recognized for her play. It's not typical, I like to call it "old school" and
oftentimes it seems like it the game comes so easy so Seimone because she is
gifted, because she is athletic. But she's a cerebral basketball player. She
understands the intricacies of the game and oftentimes that is why she's open
on those mid-range jumpers because she understands cuts and reads and spacing.
So for me I'm sort of like Temeka, you know, I'm glad she's on my team.



Q. Abiola Webara wasn't playing a lot for Baylor. From what you've seen what
are some of the problems that she can create especially on defense?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: I think your last word said it, obviously she's a
defensive presence for them and you always start there because that seems to
be the area that you can control, not having an off night. She brings a
presence, she has some size, she's athletic, she has that mentality, attacking
an opponent. And it's been shown throughout the tournament and prior to that
and I think that's some of the things the kids were trying to allude to and in
terms of Baylor being a different team and we're a different team. We have had
some players step up, we had one player that played earlier who is injured
now. So that's November to April. But she's playing extremely well for them,
but more than that she also has the ability to attack the glass, to post up a
little bit and she's a player that's developed and flourished in their system.



Q. You talked about Kim had recruited you; is that correct?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Yes.



Q. Out of high school. Was it ever tempting to play for her, knowing what she
had done as a point guard and everything?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Yes. It was more than Kim. Growing up in Louisiana, I can
remember attending some of the Louisiana Tech games. There was a great player
back there Sandra Hodges and watching Debra, Angela Turner, Pam Gant, all
those players. And Kim and I also played the same AAU program, we wore the
same number. She lives -- she's from Hammond, Louisiana, so there was so many
similarities there. So I guess it's ironic that we're here now but it was just
a natural progression at the time. They were obviously a great program at the
time and I had the opportunity to be recruited by someone that you watched
growing up, you watch be successful as a Coach and a school that had won some
championships, it was just the next step.



Q. Who really dictates whether it's time for Seimone to start shooting more
and try to take over a game? Is that something you try to avoid as coaches or
she tries to avoid and as these games get tighter like when you were down
against Duke and things like that, the first Baylor game, is that something
important for her to do that she should take a few more shots?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: We run motion offense. We very seldom -- we don't come
down and call a play for Seimone. And it's very difficult for people to
understand. Seimone wanted so much attention that when it comes to crunch
time, the second she makes a cut, she's going to draw the defender and it's
going to leave someone else wide open. And that's what I think separates her,
because she will make that cut, knowing she's going to get bumped, held,
bumped, not get the ball, double, tripled-teamed. But she continues to do it.
And it's always going to come in the natural flow of the game. But she's a
player, a competitor when the stakes are high. I think it's just a natural
innate ability to just understand that, "I have the ball in my hand, let me be
a little bit more aggressive in my approach" but it's never from a one-on-one
standpoint; it's always in the confines of the flow of our offense. But
understanding that she is the most valuable player on the floor and we play
our offense through her; not to her, and that way the decision lies within
Seimone.



Q. Is there one aspect of the game that you really do not want to see Baylor
dominate tomorrow night?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Just one? (Laughter.)



Q. I don't want to give all your strategy out.



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: It's no secret with Baylor what they're good at and
that's several things. They will play to their strengths, they will attack you
offensively, inside out. And if they don't make that first shot, they're going
to try to attack and get the second one and the third and the fourth and the
fifth. And it is your ability to defend the first, because there is no defense
for the second one, so our ability to get on the boards with them on both ends
but more importantly, we need to make Baylor defend us. They play really
aggressive defense, whether it's man or zone and I think that's what you
always want to do, but for us I think it's securing boards and making them
defend us in our half court.



Q. Specifically the defense board? You don't --



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: All of them. I want all the boards.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Okay. Pokey. Thank you.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

