|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [Laurie Koehn](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14507)

### [Deb Patterson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14194)

### [Kendra Wecker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14504)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have an opening statement from Coach Patterson.

_

COACH PATTERSON: Well, I just want to congratulate Baylor. They really played
a great basketball game tonight. You know, just competed the game and
situations with such confidence and intelligence and aggressiveness. They were
very, very good in all aspects and truly played like champions tonight. You
know, I thought we were a basketball team that played small spurts of quality
basketball relative to who we're capable of being. But obviously in a game of
this magnitude, that's not enough. And I thought that was the difference.
Baylor was consistently good and we were very sporadic tonight.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student athletes.

_ 

Q. Kendra, what did it do to y'all when Megan Mahoney went out?



KENDRA WECKER: You know, Megan obviously was a difference maker in the game,
you know, by her numbers. I think when she went out, at that point, I mean, we
still had the game within, you know, reasonable reach. But, you know, we came
down and we turned the ball over a couple times on offense. They converted on
the other end of the floor. We just weren't -- we just didn't take care of the
ball. I mean, we had the game within three a couple times, four, I mean single
digits. Coming off of a game like we did against Texas, I think, you know, we
got -- we kept chipping away at that lead and we were within the ballgame. We
just didn't do the things on offense we needed to, you know, maintain, you
know, that edge that we had.



Q. How can you explain the slow starts? Two nights ago, then again tonight.



LAURIE KOEHN: You know, I guess they're just coming out and outplaying us the
beginning of the game. You know, just not coming out with the amount of
intensity we needed. You know, it's tough when you've got to come back from
being down like that.

KENDRA WECKER: I think, you know, again tonight, they came out, they hit their
first couple shots. We turned the ball over early a couple times. You know, we
just didn't maintain that focus and commitment on the offensive end that we
needed to. We let them get a couple offensive rebounds and put-backs and found
ourselves, you know, in a hole early. But, you know, we kept chipping away,
like I said. We were definitely very much in the ballgame, you know, in the
second half.



Q. Kendra, could you talk about the way Baylor defended you. Was it anything
different than what they've done before?



KENDRA WECKER: You know, they played straight up man-to-man. You know, I don't
think we got, you know, the post hits tonight that we needed to. But, you
know, again, I didn't shoot the ball extremely well. I took some tough shots.
You know, that's just the way the game goes. They are tough, you know,
athletic defenders. When we're, you know, not executing offense and running
plays through and making silly passes and turning the ball over, then it's
hard to score.



Q. Would you talk about that 13-0 run y'all went on in the second half. That
kind of was patented Kansas State basketball, was it not?



LAURIE KOEHN: Yeah, like you said, that's when we were playing like we're
capable of playing. We were executing offense and getting stops on defense.
You know, when we get stops and run our offense like we were running, good
things happen for us.

KENDRA WECKER: Yeah, just what Laurie said, and Coach P also said that. We
played spurts of the game tonight really well. But we also had, you know, big
segments where we didn't play well on the offensive end of the floor. You
know, like I said, turned the ball over. Things just didn't -- you know,
weren't flowing for us on offense like we would have liked.



Q. Could you talk about your feelings about what happened to Megan. I don't
know what the condition would be, but if you have to go forward in the post-
season without her, what you need to do to make up for that?



LAURIE KOEHN: Well, obviously we're very concerned. I mean, she's a teammate,
been our teammate for the past four years. Any time you see a teammate go
down, you're concerned and worried. You just wish and hope the best for her.
You know, we don't know anything at this point, so it's kind of hard. We're
just going day to day.

KENDRA WECKER: Well, I mean, basically just the same what Laurie said. You
know, we just need to move forward and keep competing. We have the NCAA
tournament ahead of us. That's our main focus right now. I mean, we came in
here today with high expectations, but even though we did lose, we have to
come out of this excited and ready to go for the tournament.



Q. That stretch of the ballgame when Steffanie and Sophia came back in after
sitting a while, just talk about their play during that stretch.



KENDRA WECKER: Well, they're, I mean, obviously tough to defend. They're big,
athletic girls and they go strong to the hole. They drive the ball well from
the high posts. They post up on the block hard. They're tough to defend with
one just defender. I mean, if you play behind them then, you know, there's a
real good chance they're going to score the ball. We kind of took advantage of
it when they were out of the game. That's kind of when we get our run. They
came back in and Baylor's whole purpose I think was to get them two the ball
in the low block. They established that post game again once they were in
there.

LAURIE KOEHN: I think basically the same thing Kendra said. You know, like she
said, with them out of there, it was a lot easier for us to get a post game
going. When they came back in, it's a little tougher.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thanks for joining us. We'll keep coach for a couple
space minutes.

_ 

Q. Can you talk about the difficulty of covering Sophia down there?



COACH PATTERSON: Well, you know, Sophia's obviously a great player. Just so
athletic, strong, quick, you know, with their perimeter players playing as
well as they are, shooting the ball at the rate that they have been through
February and January, it forces you into a lot of one-on-one situations. You
know, you've got to guard their perimeters. With the tandem of Young and
Blackmon, you got to respect each of those two. So there's not a lot of area
in which you can help right now against that team. That's one of the reasons,
though, more likely than not, they'll be the No. 1 seed in the NCAA
tournament. You know, they in my mind without question are one of the Top 4
teams in the country. They are that in large part because of their great post
players, but also the balance that they're bringing to the floor and playing
with right now. You know, you look at Sophia's line, she's got eight boards,
she's eight for 16. You look at Kendra Wecker, she's five for 15 and 16
boards. Their production is similar. Kendra's is a little more versatile,
Sophia's is more that power game down there on the block. I think the reality
is that they're just a very effective basketball team now because you have to
pay a lot of attention to them one-on-one. She is as explosive and dynamic of
a player as you want to compete against, you know, not just on the first shot,
but on the second shot and on her ability to put players into foul trouble.



Q. Seemed like the run that you had in the second half was keyed by defense.
What did it take to get them to play defense like that? And have them get to
it earlier?



COACH PATTERSON: I mean, yeah, you just obviously have to be prepared to
compete the full 40. And I think when we started the game, we really gave up
too much early on the perimeter. I thought that was big. And then we gave up,
you know, some baskets in rebounding put-back situations. And combining those
two I think put us on our heels. It's something that, you know, really
requires that you're climbing back up the hill, so to speak. I think you play
the odds a little bit. You have to test out Baylor and see what the situation
is with their perimeters early in the game. You know, if you're going to give
them a little bit of ground to try to help with Sophia and Steffanie, you
measure are they going to make you pay, do they have the hot hand. And what we
found tonight as we started the game was that they did. You know, Scott shot
the ball well, Whitaker shot the ball well early. I think in the early phase
of the game, it's sort of like boxers figuring out and measuring one another.
And they were very hot early, and we were not answering on the offensive end.
I felt that was the biggest difference in the basketball game. I mean, we were
very ineffective. We were very sloppy. We were very poor on the offensive end
the first 20 minutes. You know, defensively at the end of the first half, I
felt like we could be a lot better the second 20. And for moments, we were.
But that's not enough to beat a team the caliber of Baylor.



Q. A couple times this year Kendra has been below her scoring average against
Baylor. What is it about them that they're maybe able to do this against her?



COACH PATTERSON: I really believe that is about us. I thought we were very
poor with our ball distribution, our cuts tonight, our overall execution. And
I thought the same thing when we competed against Baylor in Waco. Certainly
they're a great defensive basketball team. But I don't believe that that is as
much a function of Kendra Wecker and who's guarding her in that one-on-one
match-up as it is as a basketball team, we were not effective in putting
enough pressure on their defense at all positions on the floor to open up
easier scoring opportunities for Kendra. The way we play, it requires that a
player like Kendra can become a great scorer because others are shouldering
the load. You know, what we saw tonight was not enough of that from our
perimeters. You know, aside from Megan Mahoney, I thought our perimeter play
was very lacking. That puts all kinds of pressure on your post players -
Kendra being one of them. It's a tough game.



Q. Do you have any update on Megan, what exactly happened? Do you know
anything at all about how she is?



COACH PATTERSON: No. I just know that her ankle's wrapped up right now, and
that's all I know.



Q. Is Laurie forcing some shots? You take her in and out it seems like quite a
bit. Are you comfortable with her shot selection?



COACH PATTERSON: Well, tonight I wasn't comfortable with her shot selection in
all minutes, but I really wasn't comfortable with the shot selection of our
team in general. I wouldn't just point at Laurie with that. You know, tonight
she obviously struggled. I thought she got some open looks, and they didn't
drop for her. But I thought overall our decision making relative to the shots
we settled for versus the kind of shots we should be willing to work to get
was very poor. And I think that was a huge factor in this basketball game.



Q. You got closer than you were when Megan went down, you got closer after she
went out. Was that still the turning point when she got hurt, they got the
3-point play at the other end?



COACH PATTERSON: That was definitely a big momentum play for them. I mean,
it's five on four. We had ourselves in a position prior to that incident where
we were making a run. I thought we had a great deal of momentum, then they go
up five on four and score, and it's a 3-point play. So that was a huge, huge
play in the overall scope of the game. But we did get it back to four again.
As was true all night long, we were extremely inconsistent. We didn't value
our possessions and execute like you need to in crunch time. And in situations
where a team like Baylor is going to hold you to the highest standard of
execution, we didn't answer.



Q. Talk a little bit about the job that Kim has done there coaching them,
making them able to win the close games, taking the team from the bottom of
the conference to being a contender with K State, Texas and Texas Tech?



COACH PATTERSON: Well, she's obviously done a tremendous job at Baylor
rebuilding the program and bringing it to national prominence. She's done a
tremendous job recruiting and developing the players in the program. You know,
you don't become a top five program unless you're doing some fabulous things,
you and your staff. It's obvious that Baylor's playing with a great deal of
confidence. There's a great deal of talent. They are playing to their
strengths. It's just a great story and it's a great basketball team. They are
very, very resilient and they've got a lot of answers. You know, so much of
that is from I think the great job that Kim and her staff have done in
recruiting the kind of players that she believes in and that fit perfectly in
their system and then developing those players to a very high level.



Q. Can Megan put any weight on the ankle? Do you think you're deserving of a
No. 4 seed?



COACH PATTERSON: Number one, no one's made her try to put any weight on her
ankle. Right now it's just kind of iced and wrapped and elevated. I would
expect that, you know, that would probably be the pattern through the course
of the evening at the very least. And then relative to the seeding, it's
anybody's guess when it comes to seeding. I feel like at this point in the
tournament, you take what you're given and you head, you know, straight into
it and go as aggressive and as strong as you can. We'll see.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you and good luck tomorrow.

_

COACH PATTERSON: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have a quick opening statement from championship Coach
Mulkey-Robertson and then go to our two players, Steffanie Blackmon and Sophia
Young. Coach, your thoughts first.

_

COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: My thoughts are, I'm ready to be home. Long week. No,
I want to compliment the Kansas City people. I thought they put on a superb
tournament. The Kansas State fans, Baylor fans, made it as good a tournament
for championship games and for television. Those are the things I wanted to
say not related to what took place on the floor. I thought our defense was
superb. I thought we guarded them. Every time they turned the corner, a Baylor
player was switching on to them. I thought that won the game for us throughout
the course of their runs offensively. It was something I told the players at
pregame, that we're going to score on Kansas State, but we're going to have to
guard them like we haven't guarded people in a while. They do so many things
away from the ball that are very difficult, you have to continuously move off
of screens, cutters flashing, back-picks, back-screens, back-doors, and I
thought our defense set the tone tonight from the very beginning.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the player athletes.

_ 

Q. Sophia, can you talk about the last five minutes. Looked like you really
wanted the ball, especially after being out with foul trouble for a little.



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, I got in foul trouble, and I sat on the bench. I think K
State made a run, like, right after that. So when I went back in the game, I
knew that I had to -- like we had to get the ball inside the post because
that's where most of the scoring was come from. I tried to be as aggressive as
possible on the offensive end. My teammates got the ball for me.



Q. After seeing what Kansas State was able to do to Texas in the semis with
that comeback, when they started making that run on you, especially in the
second half, did you think, "Oh, gee, it's going to happen to us now"?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, at one point we did. But then we knew that if he we had
the lead, we needed to keep it up. We wasn't going to let it go 'cause we know
what they did a few days before. We weren't going to let them come back to
that point where it was like a tied ballgame or anything like that. So we
tried to be aggressive on defense and tried to score every time we got the
ball on offense. And I guess it all paid off.

STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I think the same thing Sophia said. Last night we watched
the game, we knew definitely that they could have come back, they had the
ability to do so the night before. I mean, basketball is a game of runs
anyway, so we just tried to stay focused and not let up so much.



Q. How frustrating was it to be on the bench and how much were you lobbying to
get back in?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, it was very frustrating. That last foul that I got, I
thought he called a kick ball, so I thought I was still in the game. But it
was just frustrating just to be on the bench. Because in a tight game like
this, you don't ever want to be on the bench, you always want to be in the
game to help your team out as much as possible. I guess we just wanted to get
back in and make a run for ourselves.

STEFFANIE BLACKMON: It's frustrating, but I thought the team did a good job of
keeping the game tight and keeping close, playing good defense, things like
this. I wasn't really worried about it. But just wanting to go out there and
help.



Q. Steffanie, y'all celebrated a week ago. How does this one feel?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: Even better. I mean, to do it twice is amazing. I saw
Texas do it a couple years ago. I was like, "Why can't we?" Feels great right
now.



Q. Both of you guarded Wecker at one time or another. You've had success
keeping her under average. What do you have to be conscious of when you guard
a player like her?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I think you have to do your homework, be familiar with her
moves, her tendency. She's a good player, but you just got to try to stay
tight, keep your feet moving and be ready.

SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, first of all, Wecker is a very good player and we needed
to stop her from driving to the basket a lot, stop the spin move, because we
worked on that today. I think we did a pretty good job of keeping her from
doing her average. So, yeah, but I must compliment her for just being the good
player she is.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, we'll see you on the selection show tomorrow.
Congratulations. Questions for Coach Mulkey-Robertson.

_ 

Q. Same question to you about when Kansas State was mounting that comeback in
the second half, did you have a little feeling of, "Oh, gee, here they go
again"?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No. I knew before the game they would. I mean, we
talked about it. 17-0 against Texas, come back and win a basketball game. They
score a lot of points in a short period of time. We discussed that in our
scouting report. In the timeout, when they cut the lead, I said, "Here's what
coach was telling you about." They just looked at me, "Like, yeah, coach, we
listen. But we'll get back out there and extend it a little bit more." They
had confidence in themselves. Good teams do that, you know, with this crowd in
the game, playing close to their home. But, you know, I never thought at any
time that we were not in control of the basketball game. I felt like even when
they cut the lead, "Hey, guys, we're still in the lead, and don't rush
anything, just keep doing what you've been doing."



Q. You talked before about Blackmon and Young getting in foul trouble. The
question was asked to them about how much they lobbied. How difficult was it
for you to keep them on the bench for as long as you did?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: First of all, I was trying to think, I don't think in
coaching those two together that I've ever had both of them on the bench in
foul trouble with that much time to go in a game and us only maintaining at
the time a five-point lead. So that was a first for our team. I, like them,
want to compliment the players for never, ever -- they just never got rattled.
They went out there and they continued to rebound on the defensive end and
help our team. When it got to about the six-minute mark, I looked at both of
them -- to tell you the truth, Steffanie looked at me like, "Are you sure you
want us to go in with that much time left?" She didn't say anything, she just
had that look. She looked at the clock. I said, "Get in there. That's why
you're All-Americans. You get in there, you learn how to play with four
fouls." I'd never coached them where both of them were in foul trouble.



Q. The play where Chelsea scored on the layup when y'all wind up with a five-
on-four situation with Megan down. How important was that? You hit an
offensive lull for a long period?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I didn't see the player go down. I was in front of the
pack watching the ball. You know, that's what seniors do. Let me tell you
something about Chelsea Whitaker. I know all coaches think their players
should be all-tournament, and Steffanie and Sophia definitely deserved it. But
there is a kid in Chelsea Whitaker, I'd love for you guys to look at her
assist-to-turnover ratio in this tournament. Unbelievable. She played 40
minutes tonight, never came off the floor, and just playing big-time
basketball for us. She's just very, very confident right now. That was a big
basket, then it was a 3-point play.



Q. At any time when Kansas State, after they had cut it to three or four, did
the players just know to take it straight to Sophia or did you have to
instruct them?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Oh, I instruct them a lot. But you can rest assured
they know it and if they don't know it, I remind them. "Go to your strength."
I thought there were a couple of times where we rushed it when we got to the
three and a half, 3:50 mark. We took some really uncharacteristic shots for us
on the perimeter too early, too early into the shot clock. Chameka, one in
particular, I remember on the baseline out there. It was too early. I love her
confidence, and I love, you know, that she has the confidence to do that. But
when you're in the championship game and you're playing a team that can score
quickly, you got to I don't want to use the word "milk" the clock, but you got
to be smart when you shoot the ball and get better shots than that.



Q. You talked about the defensive effort on Wecker. Can you talk about the
perimeter defense on Koehn in the second half.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Let me tell you something, Abiola Wabara, that's a
woman out there. That is as strong a woman as you'll ever coach. That is the
highest compliment. She's about the only one physically on our team that can
match up with Wecker. And I want to say something about Abiola, because those
kinds of players go unnoticed sometimes, and she needs to be mentioned because
it was a challenge for her to guard Kendra Wecker. On the perimeter, if you
watch the game closely, our game plan going in was every time they cut, moved,
did anything, everybody is switching on everything. Never allow them to turn
the corner and never allow them to get a spot-up shot. They did. Koehn had
some right early in the first half. Like I told them at halftime, when you
think you're out on her, get a little bit closer. That's all you can do when
you have players that have that kind of range. When you think you're far
enough out on her, just get a little bit closer and make them drive to beat
you, make them put the ball on the floor.



Q. You mentioned Chelsea playing 40 minutes. Seems the bench was maybe a
little shorter than usual.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It might have been shorter in minutes played, but it
was valuable in production.



Q. I was going to ask about LaToya in particular.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Jordan Davis going in, guys, cold as can be, nailing
two free-throws. I mean, that's the confidence I have in those kids. "Jordan,
I need you in the game, because they're going to start fouling, go nail the
free-throws. Help us extend this lead." It wasn't necessarily the minutes
played as much as what it was what they did when they were in there. LaToya
went in early to give Chameka a breather coming off screens. You know, that's
hard, coming off screens. Your body getting bumped all the time. LaToya has
that lateral quickness that can help. She gave Chameka a lot of help tonight
in that area.



Q. Winning the conference title with five teams ranked, do you deserve a No. 1
seed? Talk about how you've turned the program around in the five years you've
been there.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You know what, I'm not going to beg for a No. 1 seed.
If you win the Big-12 and you win the conference Big-12 championship, what
else can we do? There's nothing else we can do. It's out of our hands. If
we're not going to be a No. 1 seed, send me to the place with the school
that's going to get the No. 1 seed in front of us. That's all I know to say.
Our kids are confident, and they've done all they can do to put themselves in
a position to get a No. 1 seed. But, guys, it doesn't really matter. If we
don't get it, we got to go play. We got to go play. As far as building the
program, I don't have a magic wand that can tell you just exactly how we did
it. We came. I was scared to death, first head coaching job. Just thought,
"What in the world am I doing? I'm leaving a program that has been to Final
Fours, is used to winning, going to one" -- Back in those days, the loudest
crowd noise was when they brought the pizza out. I used to say, this is the
God's truth, "I'm going to live to see the day that the crowd is into the game
as much as when they try to win pizza." And we have lived to see that day.
What we did, the first thing I did, you know, a lot of thought goes into your
staff. I had to bring a staff that wasn't going to bailout on me quickly. I
had to bring a staff that was very loyal. See, one of my biggest faults is
also one of my strengths. I'm very loyal. I'm very loyal, to a fault
sometimes. And I brought Jennifer and Johnny from Ruston, Louisiana. Johnny
was never even in the coaching profession. But I knew Johnny would be loyal
and he could do all the administrative things that I don't want to do. I don't
care about budgets, I don't care about money, I don't care about scheduling.
He can do those things and he's darn good at it. Jennifer had the personality
to recruit young people. She could talk their talk. She could sell me. We
couldn't sell Baylor. Seven wins. Who is going to want to come there? We could
sell academics, though. A lot of players bought into that. Bill Brock, having
been a head coach, could help me on the defensive end of the floor, could help
me with post players, could help me with the contacts. That was the first and
best move I ever made coming to Baylor, was hiring those guys. Then we had to
go out and get the players that might not have been looked at that the powers
to be, but we thought could compete with the powers to be. I'll never forget
my recruiting class, with the Blackmon sisters, Jordan Davis, Melanie Hamerly.
That class was big for us. Sheila Lambert, Brooke McCormick came with Bill
from Grayson. They jump-started the program. But they really weren't our first
true recruiting class or our first high school recruiting class. We've been
able each year to find players like that. I don't have a McDonald's All-
American on any position on that floor. I wouldn't know what the luxury of
that would feel like. You got teams in this league that have one at every
position. All we know to do is go to work. Roll your sleeves up, go to work.
That school at Baylor has given us everything we need to win. I've never asked
for anything that we have not received in order to compete at this level.
That's all you can do. And we've been very, very productive.



Q. Was it something you told them or was it just natural when they went back
in, it seemed like the ball just went to Sophia every time?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, you know, Steffanie and Sophia are going to be
big bodies down there. Again, I don't know that in a timeout, I could have
said, "Get the ball inside." I know I said several times, "We don't need to
rush our shots. We need to work the ball around. We're in control of the game.
We don't need to rush our shots." Now I'm going to tell you something we
didn't do a very good job of. Other than shooting free-throws, we kept
stopping the clock on the defensive end. That's the worst thing you can do to
a team like Kansas State who can nail free-throws. It was being aggressive
defensively, which you hate to get on young people, because that's what you
want them to be. But you've got to be super intelligent late in the game and
make sure you don't keep stopping the clock. That's when I used one of the
timeouts to tell them that's one of the worst things you can do.



Q. You say you don't really care about where you're seeded. Do you care where
you play?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, I know where I'm not going, that I'd love to be
in your hometown. See, the women's game hasn't reached that point yet. You
would think conference champs, tournament champs, we should be rewarded and go
to Dallas, but that's not happening, okay? So, yeah, I'd care that I'd like to
pick and choose, but I don't get that luxury. The women's game just hasn't
gotten to neutral sites yet. I don't want to go to Knoxville, Tennessee,
Chattanooga. I don't want to be anywhere near the Volunteer State because I
think they have a cakewalk. Don't they have two things there? Don't they have
Chattanooga and what's the other spot? Don't you think they'll be there? I
don't want to go there. But, see, the women's game unfortunately hasn't
reached that point yet. We're trying. We're trying very hard, but we just
haven't reached it yet. You know who I hate it for the most, I hate it for our
fans. Our players will get on a plane. We'll get on a plane and go anywhere.
But when you get to post-season, it's a reward for your fans, too. And we have
a good fan following.



Q. Better than the old system.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: The old system would have been good because you would
have gotten a host and do all that. But I'm glad the game is getting away from
home-court sites. But we're just not to neutral sites yet. We've just got to
get there quickly.



Q. I'm wondering how proud you were of them for making the free-throws down
the stretch after the first half, then how many free-throws will you shoot
this week?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, you need to ask me how many times will we run
for the number of free-throws we missed. We started this earlier in the year,
challenging them, every one that they miss, we're going to run down and back.
We did step up in the second half. Didn't we only miss one? In the first half,
we missed a lot of front ends in the first half, too. But, yeah, free-throws,
it's mental. It's mental. And you got to be careful what you say to them to
make them really get uptight about it. I thought I did a poor job in the
Nebraska game this year when we lost in triple overtime because we had a
14-point lead and we were already in a double bonus there. We just missed
free-throws. You make your free-throws, you don't even go to overtime. I felt
like some things I may have said to them in the timeout may have made them too
conscious of it. Sometimes you don't say something other than, "Hey, guys, we
got to step up and make some free-throws."



Q. Back to the NCAA tournament. There were a lot of teams that aren't used to
losing that lost this year. Do you think the parity that seems to be growing
in the game will help get neutral sites soon?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think the parity is there. I think the thing we're
looking right now is what? We don't know across the country where the fans
are. We know where they are in certain areas. But until we reach -- it's all
generated by money. You got to have people in the stands to sell tickets and
to do things. The women's game has not reached that yet. You still got the
same old places you could put it every year, sell out, make money. And we're
trying to get away from that. And when we do get away from it, you got to be
careful because you got to make sure we have people in the stands. The parity
is there. The game is there now. It's time to go on and get to neutral courts.
And again, guys, we're working hard to get there.



Q. Is there a different kind of satisfaction between winning a regular season
and a tournament championship? You kind of alluded to it yesterday. Does it
feel different? I'm not saying one is better than the other.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I am. I'll quickly tell you, they both feel great. Not
many people do both of them. Not many people double dip is what the girls say.
"We double dipped this year, Coach." You don't do that. That's hard to do. But
if you're asking me which one I put more weight on, I'd have to put the
season, the season, 16 games, is so much more grueling than getting on a run
in a two- or three-day tournament. And to think that we did both of them is
just a special group that I get to coach.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you and congratulations again.

_

COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Twiggy McIntyre](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14281)

### [Deb Patterson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14194)

### [Kendra Wecker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14504)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have an opening statement by coach and then we'll throw
it open to questions for K State student athletes. Coach, congratulations on a
good comeback win.

_

COACH PATTERSON: Thank you. Well, this evening's game to me was just a classic
great Big-12 match-up, a basketball game in which I thought both teams played
extremely hard and fought like you would expect Big-12 teams to fight the full
40 minutes. I'm just very proud of our basketball team. We have so much
respect for Texas, the talent and the strength that they bring to the floor.
We're just extremely proud of the fact that we were able to compete back from
the deficit and make the game competitive and ultimately end up with the
victory.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student athletes.

_ 

Q. You were like Cool Hand Luke. Talk about that. What was that whole deal
like in the last 10 minutes of the game for you?



TWIGGY McINTYRE: I just had total confidence in my team. I mean, I just knew
we had it in us the entire game. I didn't let anything rattle us or anything
like that. Especially at the point guard position, I have to maintain my cool
and everything as I call the plays and bring the ball up the court.



Q. Kendra, why didn't the team get rattled when you fell behind 17-0?



KENDRA WECKER: This team, man, we have a lot of heart. I don't think we've
ever seen that as much as we did this evening. When you have players coming
off the bench like Brie and Twiggy, and just play the game of their careers
like both of them did tonight, you know, we got momentum on the defensive end.
We stepped up and we made some stops, then we came down and made some huge
plays on offense. We just kept battling. I mean, we were down seven at
halftime. Coach P, we came out and pretended like it was a brand-new ballgame,
0-0, and we were starting all over again. I think we got down like around 13
in the second half, but, you know, for some reason, that just didn't shake us
tonight. We kept our composure. You know, we were celebrating at mid court
after the game. I just told the team, that was all about heart. We had huge,
huge purple hearts tonight and we came out on top.



Q. Kendra, given the emotional nature of coming back from 17 down, what's left
to come back in the finals?



KENDRA WECKER: You know, it's a once in a lifetime opportunity for someone to
get to that championship game. For this group of seniors that we have, this is
our first and last time to get there. We're going to bring everything we have
to the court on Saturday. You know, we got a day of rest tomorrow, and I'm
sure we'll take advantage of that. But, you know, just refocus and get our
mindset ready for Saturday. I think we're all going to celebrate this for what
it's worth tonight, but get back in the gym tomorrow and get ready to play a
great Baylor team.



Q. Kendra, talk about Brie tonight.



KENDRA WECKER: I don't know what all I can say. Brie Madden was tremendous.
You know, Tiffany Jackson is a tough match-up for anybody. But, you know, Brie
brought her A game today. She had a double-double, six assists. She was huge
for us tonight. You know, just not being afraid, not backing down from
(inaudible). She took the ball to Tiffany, and made some big plays for us, got
some rebounds, was aggressive and feisty all night. For a player to come off
the bench like that and play with that much confidence, it was huge for us
tonight. The same thing goes for Twiggy. She went 7 for 10 from the floor,
shot some -- knocked down some huge free-throws, a couple big threes, able to
get to the rim a couple times. That just says lot about this team and our
bench play, you know, the focus and commitment that we can bring on the
offensive end of the floor.



Q. Talk about your mindset as you're going up against Jamie Carey.



TWIGGY McINTYRE: Oh, man, I just have so much respect for Jamie Carey. She was
a point guard that I watched when I was in high school. I just really have
much respect for her game. I knew she was wanting to take the big shot towards
the end of the game. She's amazing at it. It's one of her trademarks. So I
just did my best to stick on her and my teammates did an amazing job backing
me up if I got caught on the screen.



Q. Kendra, I couldn't help but see you at halfcourt doing the chest bump. That
was a pretty cool moment. A lot of people here probably are thinking about,
"What is going to happen once this senior class leaves?" Can you talk about
Twiggy.



KENDRA WECKER: You know, these guys have so much ahead of them. Yeah, you
know, this is our last year here, but with Twiggy and players like Claire and
Shana, I mean, the sky's the limit for those guys. You know, coming off of a
huge win like this, you know, whatever happens happens on Saturday. But I have
all the confidence in the world in them that, you know, once we are done with
our careers, they're going to take this program and keep it, you know, at the
level it is and hopefully even better.



Q. A lot of big shots in that comeback. Can you put your finger on one? I'm
thinking of Mahoney off-balance shot. Does somebody want to comment on that
one?



TWIGGY McINTYRE: Megan hit a couple of those when we were playing Texas Tech.
I kind of joke around with her all the time. She's like, "I never make any
shots except for when the shot clock is going down." She stepped up and was
huge for us tonight, especially in the last couple minutes of the game. Came
in and did a great job defensively. We were kind of -- I don't know, we were
pretty spread out on that play. I was trying to make something happen by
sending her a long ball. She chose not to use it. Somehow got a shot off, kind
of double pumped with the girl hanging on me, and it went in. That was just a
huge, huge momentum change right there for us right there. I think that just
lifted up our team to another level.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, congratulations. We will see you Saturday. Questions
for coach.

_ 

Q. Given the circumstances, down 17-0, do you think this is the biggest win in
the program's history?



COACH PATTERSON: Well, I believe it's certainly the most emotional win and the
biggest comeback victory that I'm aware of, you know, certainly in my tenure
here, and definitely in the tenure of this senior class. But I think in my
nine years here, this is far and away the biggest comeback victory that I'm
familiar with. You know, I think it was a real positive for us to have been
able to battle back to seven at half. That put us in position of being
competitive the second 20 minutes. So more than anything, I think it was
really impressive to our staff that we walked into the locker room after the
first 20 minutes under double digits. You know, that to me was really where
the character of our team had been revealed. It set a standard I think that
our basketball team understood, they were capable of bringing the next 20
minutes.



Q. Can you talk about Twiggy's game coming off the bench tonight?



COACH PATTERSON: Yeah, Twiggy was tremendous tonight. You know, an incredible
feel for the tempo the game required. You know, she defended extremely well.
Offensively, she just managed the last half of the second 20 so extremely well
and really just brought great balance across the board. Very good basketball
decisions. She brought an understanding of who she was on the floor with,
where the ball needed to be, when, and also was willing in her own right to
step up and be a play-maker without forcing action. For a player like her to
have made this big of an impact in a game with so much on the line and with so
much pressure is just so extremely impressive and something certainly I know
she'll take a great deal of pride in and I know build off of. You know, it's a
very special moment when you come off the bench and you can impact the team
like Twiggy McIntyre did today. As you can see, it makes us a better
basketball team.



Q. Can you talk about Brie tonight.



COACH PATTERSON: Brie was everything we could have asked her to be in our post
game. You know, the last month she has just continued to make steady progress,
and tonight, you know, I thought she was just tremendous. You know, she had
such a tough assignment in Tiffany Jackson. Defensively she kept herself in
the game. It's so important that you keep yourself on the floor but yet you're
aggressive. As always, Tiffany did a great job. You know, 24 points on the
night. But Brie Madden maintained that she was going to be a defensive
presence. She maintained that offensively she was going to be aggressive, and
that she was going to be a rebounder. I think the other telling statistic for
her tonight was the fact that she leaves the floor with four assists or six
assists. You know, very much like Twiggy, she had a great feel for what the
game required of her and what her team needed as we competed, particularly
those second 20 minutes. Having that post presence is just so important for
any team that's going to be successful at this stage in the season, you know,
whereas that had been a question mark in the early and mid stage of the
season, we're finding that over the course of the last month, Brie Madden has
been stepping up and making a statement that she wants to be that presence for
us. Certainly tonight it helped separate us.



Q. You guys have been pretty good when you score 70 points. Can you talk about
that? Is there a key to that?



COACH PATTERSON: Well, I think, again, one of the greatest strengths we bring
to the floor is our versatility on the offensive end. In order for us to be
successful, I think we've got to be the kind of team that is putting a lot of
points on the board. I think that indicates that we're playing true to our
system, playing true to our strengths. It sounds very simplistic: score a lot
of points. But for a team like us that predicates a lot of what we do on the
offensive end of the floor and spent a great deal of time on working to be an
effective offensive team, that's an important element. You know, we have to
get results for our investment. I think tonight we did that. We did it in a
challenging manner. We went to that big long scoring drought at the beginning
of the game and consequently it put a lot of pressure on us the second 20
minutes to be efficient offensively. But our players stepped up. That's what
it takes against a similar team in terms of the offensive power that Texas
brings to the floor. They've got the inside-outside. I believe you've got to
be ready to score some points if you're going to have a chance to beat them.



Q. What makes Baylor so tough? Why have they been able to pull out so many
close games this year, including tonight?



COACH PATTERSON: Tonight was a classic example of how mentally tough and
confident that basketball team has played throughout the course of this year.
They've been very intelligent, they've been very aggressive. When it has come
to close game situations, they've made big plays. You need that in order to,
again, separate yourself and win. You have to have players make big plays.
Tonight was a classic example with the drive and the shot with two seconds
left to essentially win the basketball game. But, you know, Baylor, again, is
a great basketball team because they're so extremely athletic. They're so
extremely skilled. With Sophia Young and Tiffany Blackmon, they've got two of
the best post players in the game, without question. They've got the depth,
dimension in having a player with the size and versatility as a scorer inside
and out that Niemann brings. Wabara is such a phenomenal athlete and defender.
They're great on the offensive boards. They're quicker than just about anybody
in the land in the paint, in creating second-shot opportunities. They're a
team now that has perimeter players that can break you down off the dribble
and has the poise and patience to step up and make big jump shots or big
three's when the game necessitates it. I just think they're a basketball team
that plays very strong to their strengths. They're very confident. They're
very balanced, very athletically talented. Their quickness is extraordinary.
They maximize every one of those elements.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, congratulations.

_

COACH PATTERSON: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [LaToya Davis](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14298)

### [Darrice Griffin](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14505)

### [Marsha Sharp](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13845)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We have Coach Sharp and LaToya Davis and Darrice Griffin. We'll
have your opening thoughts about the game, Coach.

_

COACH SHARP: Well, I'm disappointed we didn't win. Lead it that long, as much
respect as we have for their basketball team, you don't come out with a win,
it's really disappointing. We should have made some plays at the end to win
it. You know, we have to learn to do that real quickly, in the next few days,
to stay in it. Next time you lose, you're done. From here on, you've got to
make plays and you've got to understand the urgency that you have to play
with. Baylor's a great basketball team, there's no question about that. I
think they're one of the top two or three in the country. I said that last
night. I've said it consistently I think since I was at media day up here in
the fall. I really think they have so many weapons. They understand how
important it is to make plays at the end to win. I think they've proven that
in conference play because they've won a lot of close basketball games. You
have to give them a lot of credit, maybe not on their best night, of coming
out and making plays anyway and giving themselves a chance to win. I just am
disappointed because we should have made those same plays and didn't. And
that's frustrating whenever you see people fight as hard as we fought tonight
and then not finish it well, I think it's tough. But, you know, I think the
good news is we get to play another day. We get to go to Dallas and play the
NCAA and host there. We're excited about the opportunity to do that. I think
the Big-12 has gotten us ready to play. We've fought through about every
situation you can think of. We've seen every defense, great players in every
spot. I've coached against great coaches to try to get us ready to go do what
we hope will happen the next few weeks. And I hope there are a lot of Big-12
teams that stay in post-season play for a long time.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for either of our players.

_ 

Q. Darrice, can you talk about that last defensive play you had there at the
end. Did you feel like you came close to blocking it or maybe made her take
tough shot?



DARRICE GRIFFIN: Yeah, well, we practiced that play a lot. We know that
Whitaker likes to take it to her left-hand side and try to get the layup off.
I think that -- I don't know, I should have been there, I should have blocked
the shot and helped my teammate out. I was a step too slow, and she ended up
making the layup.



Q. LaToya, what did you all take from that game from a week ago?



LATOYA DAVIS: I think we took from that game is that we just need to come out
and play aggressive like we did, and we just need to finish instead of, you
know, being up in the last minute or two, fouling, letting them switch lines
and then (inaudible) 10 points.



Q. LaToya, is there anything you guys tried to do different defensively this
time that kept y'all to have that lead?



LATOYA DAVIS: We tried to play behind post players a lot and then double team
on the post players off the weak side players. We kind of tried to do that. It
gave us a chance to win, but we just didn't finish it.



Q. LaToya, how do you get yourself back up after a loss like this? Leading for
the entire second half up until the last few minutes of the game, going to the
NCAA tournament.



LATOYA DAVIS: Well, it's going to be hard. Like Coach Sharp said, the good
thing is we have another day to play basketball. We just have to realize right
now, next time we lose, it's one and out. We have to be motivated for that,
try to forget about this day and move on to the next game.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, good luck in the post-season. We'll keep Coach Sharp
for a few more minutes. Questions for coach.

_ 

Q. Can you talk about the last four minutes. Offensively, that's where you
were talking about you guys not going.



COACH SHARP: Well, we were attempting -- I think when we had Greenwalt in foul
trouble, we got a little bit small on the blocks. We'd been able to enter it a
little bit there. They did a better job I thought of taking away our inside
game, forcing us to try to be on the perimeter a little bit more. I thought we
missed a couple of good-lucking jumpers during the middle of that that would
have given us a chance to win. Certainly, you know, didn't take as good of
care of the basketball. I thought it got really physical when we were trying
to turn a corner. They fouled us a couple of times, but we weren't one-on-one,
had to take the ball out and try again. You know, we just didn't execute as
well as we should have. We had a couple pretty good looks at the basket and
didn't make it. I thought the play that Cisti made when she threw it back in
out of bounds and we got the bucket out of it and it was a big one. I thought
maybe it had given us just enough of a lead that we were going to be able to
hold them off. But they made a couple of big plays and we weren't able to
answer that.



Q. I'm sure you don't like to see Greenwalt in foul trouble. What were some of
the things you were able to do with the combination of Davis, Griffin?



COACH SHARP: Well, they have a lot of quickness. I think they can get in and
out of help quickly. I think probably with that lineup, we defended Baylor
better on the free-throw line than we did with Cisti in the game. They can get
down and guard you a little bit more with people facing the basket, which is
what Baylor likes to do when they're up high. That part of it probably helped
us a little bit as far as the defensive end. We just don't have that big
presence offensively to try to go into with that group on the floor. You know,
we probably will have to learn how to do that in a year, but we'll have to
change some offensive looks just a little bit in order to make that happen.



Q. Coach, it seemed like Darrice had absolutely no fear going up offensively
against any Baylor inside defender tonight.



COACH SHARP: Well, she'll go attack you a little bit. You know, I think she's
going to learn how to really use her quickness to be an explosive offensive
player. We're going to spend the off-season trying to get her to handle the
basketball and shoot it a little bit -- with a little bit more distance. I
think when she does that, she has a chance to really be a special offensive
player. She's a pretty good athlete. She can get up on the rim a little bit.
Those things are going to be fun for us I think in the future. We probably
didn't get her quite as many clean looks tonight as we needed to. They double-
teamed her some, tried to make her be a passer. Sometimes for a freshman to
try to make those decisions is tough. But give Baylor credit, they took away
some of our strengths. We didn't answer that very well with some jumpers from
our wing players. We didn't shoot it very well in those two positions, and it
hurt us tonight.



Q. Can you talk about what happened in that first half, the delay, the refs
were looking at a replay.



COACH SHARP: Well, I thought -- we didn't think the ball went in at first.
They had signaled a one-shot early, and then they came back I thought and
signaled that it was a two-shot foul. We were just concerned. I wanted them to
check the monitor to see if it went in or not because I thought there was a
little confusion about how many free-throws they were going to shoot. The ball
did go in the hole and they gave them one free-throw, then called a foul on
the ensuing rebound I believe and shot some more. I think that's where the
confusion was.



Q. What did you think of Baylor's defensive strategy to get the foul on
Darrice before the inbound pass, before running time off the clock? Steffanie
said they wanted that foul so they could put the freshmen on.



COACH SHARP: Great move. It was a great move on their part to do that. On my
side of it, the only people I had on the bench were freshmen. We at least had
one on the floor that had been playing some minutes. I knew that probably we
were going to have to shoot a free-throw there. I didn't think I had a choice,
though, but to leave her on the floor. It was a great coaching move on Kim's
part to do that.



Q. With the respect you have for Baylor, calling them a Top 2, Top 3 team, can
you turn it into a positive having an eight-point lead with seven minutes to
go?



COACH SHARP: Well, there will be. I think we're mad tonight that we didn't
finish it. I'm mad we didn't finish it tonight. But I'll get past that and
we'll take some positives because we do have a lot of respect for them. I
think any time you'll be able to play someone that has had as great a year as
they have to this kind of situation, you have to realize, you know, that
you've got a chance to play for a while if you can really make some plays when
it counts. Hopefully, you know, there will be a situation develop in a week or
two where we need to do the same thing again, and this time we'll make it
because we were in that situation before. We had to make free-throws last
night to win it, we did. We had to make free-throws tonight to win it, and we
didn't. And that's what it really came down to.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, good luck on Selection Sunday. Hope to see you in
Dallas.

_

COACH SHARP: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Jamie Carey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16266)

### [Jody Conradt](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13898)

### [Tiffany Jackson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13843)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'll ask Coach Conrad to give us a brief opening statement,
then throw it open to questions for our players. Coach, hard-fought contest.

_

COACH CONRADT: It was. Disappointing. We came out so good early. Everything
was clicking. We hit everything we put up. I thought our flow was great. I
loved the tempo. Then it was almost like it was too easy for us and we started
to self-destruct. It's hard to put your finger on what happens when you lose
your momentum like that, but obviously I wish I could have done some things
differently at this point. But I kept thinking we would right ourselves. Then
we did for a short time, get back to a 10-point lead, then we have two
defensive breakdowns in succession. By then they had momentum and a will to
get back in the game. Last part of the game I thought we executed, had some
really good looks, and some days it just won't go down for you. So
disappointing. K State is really good. I would not have predicted that the
stat sheet would look the way it looks. I thought we did a really good job on
Wecker. If you told me that we would hold her under 20, I would think we had a
really good chance to win. But we let other players step up and probably have
career games. Ironically, that's one of the things we talked about not letting
happen when we went into this game. Wecker's hard to guard. Koehn is hard to
guard. They're going to get their points. Let's try to make everybody else on
the team really have to struggle to get points. It just didn't work out that
way. So credit to their whole team because they stepped up, and I'm sure Deb
was pleased with the play of people who aren't dependent on to score and had
really good nights and we couldn't seem to have an answer for that.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the Texas players.

_ 

Q. Tiffany, were you surprised by Brie Madden's being so aggressive on the
offensive end?



TIFFANY JACKSON: No. I've seen Brie play a lot in high school. I know she's
very aggressive. I wasn't surprised at all.



Q. Jamie, what was going through your head at the last second? You're trying
to shoot that basket. What was going on?



JAMIE CAREY: Uhm, well, we were down by three and there was like three seconds
on the clock. Daria took a shot from the corner I think about eight seconds on
the clock. I think it was Tiffany that got the rebound and kicked it out. I
was just trying to put up a shot. Didn't fall.



Q. Was there a point when you shot it you thought it was good? Did you know
when you shot it it wasn't going in?



JAMIE CAREY: It felt off.



Q. A loss in this manner, do you think it will have any effect on the way
y'all -- your mentality going into the tournament?



TIFFANY JACKSON: I think a loss in this manner will just give us more
motivation. We went through this a lot at the beginning of the season, and it
was really hard. Going through it again, I think it will give us a lot of
motivation.



Q. Jamie?



JAMIE CAREY: I want to echo that. I don't think anyone in the locker room was
pleased with what happened. When you have a situation like that, you know, I
think the only thing you can do is get back in the gym and work hard, you
know, get back to ourselves and go from there.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thanks and good luck to you on the selection show.
We'll keep coach for a couple more minutes. Questions for coach.

_ 

Q. When y'all had the similar losses early, there were questions of mental
toughness. Is that still a question?



COACH CONRADT: Not at all. Not at all. I think this team has matured and grown
up a lot. I think there were different circumstances tonight. I wish I could
have managed it better. The rotation never felt comfortable to me. We just
probably got too lackadaisical when we were so good early. I felt like we took
too hard of shots. We didn't show a lot of patience. One of the hard things is
tempo is really upbeat, we wanted to push, but then we needed to gear it down
when we got in the halfcourt set, and we didn't do that. We haven't had an
opportunity to push the ball like that in a long time, so I think we got
really excited about it and started really running, then didn't change gears.
In the meantime, some of their players started to hit shots that I have to
tell you that I'd give them those shots going into this game, but they made
them. Would I think we would have layups rim out late like we did? No. Those
aren't the kind of things that you usually expect to happen. Kala had a
couple, Jamie had one. That just doesn't happen very often. There were a lot
of circumstances. I never lost confidence that we were going to pull the game
out. But when we missed the layup to tie it up, I thought, you know, this may
not be meant to be. At this point in the season, we're just going to go home
and be thankful for an extra day's rest and get ready. I mean, I don't know
how much it took out of us last night to play the kind of game we played. Had
we won this, I would have been a lot more concerned about how we were going to
play a third game against a really good team on Saturday than I am worried
about having lost this game.



Q. Do you wonder if this might affect your NCAA preparation and seeding and do
you even care about the seeding?



COACH CONRADT: I stopped caring about the seeding a long time ago because it's
not something you can control. I don't have a clue how that's all going to
play out. I think the committee's going to have the hardest job they've had in
a really long time, maybe ever, in terms of sorting out who deserves what. I
can't see an easy route for anyone because there's so many good teams out
there. Not going to worry about it. Again, I came in here thinking I don't
want to go home with tired legs and being worried about how they're going to
recover to get ready to play their best basketball. So now we don't have that
concern. We'll take a couple of days off. We'll see what happens on Sunday.
Then we'll start to get ready for whoever is wherever.



Q. You've been talking a lot about missing layups. What about defensively?
Especially in the second half, there were a lot of times that K State had an
open basket. What happened?



COACH CONRADT: Absolutely. Lack of communication and just defensive
breakdowns. We were trying to change some things. We were switching some
things. We were hedging some things. We were trying to make them have
different looks about what we were doing defensively. Our communication wasn't
as good as it needed to be in some of those situations. Defense is a five-
person thing. The team talked a little about being concerned with their person
scoring and not getting in help side and not switching and not doing some
things. Nothing there, except when you play man-to-man defense, you all have
to be on the same page, and at times we weren't. And, again, a little bit
surprised that some of the players made some of the shots that they made. What
we should have done is recognize that they were having career nights and make
an adjustment. But I'll take responsibility for that. I couldn't seem to get
that across.



Q. It was a real partisan crowd. When they sank a three, the place went crazy.



COACH CONRADT: I think we went in expecting that. You never want to play
Kansas State or Iowa State in Kansas City because they bring their home crowd,
and it does feel like an opponent's floor. But that's not something I think
that is surprising or not something that you shouldn't be able to deal with.



Q. Was it a case where you guys concentrated so much on Wecker and Koehn that
you left Brie Madden open, or was Brie just one of those nights where
everything she put up went in?



COACH CONRADT: I think somebody hit on that early. Brie was aggressive. I
think you always have to think about the psyche of the players that you're
playing against. Brie's from Texas. She's heard a lot about the players that
were wearing our jerseys. We didn't recruit Brie, which might have been a
mistake. No, I could factor all that in there. She played well against us when
we played them in - where were we - Manhattan, and had some chances to help
them win there, and maybe didn't make plays. You look at her motivation. I
think she played really, really well. Probably was the difference in the game.
But I don't know how many shots Twiggy McIntyre takes a game. Does anybody
know that? How many three's does she shoot? Sometimes the stars just align in
a different way. And basketball is a game of percentages. I've always believed
that. It's percentages on the defensive end. You try to force people into low-
percentage shots or people who don't have ability to make certain shots, you
give up some things. You can't guard everything and everybody. On the
offensive end, you take the high-percentage shots. And we had some breakdowns
on both ends. I thought we took too hard of shots through a stretch there in
the first half when our lead started to dwindle. But credit to Kansas State,
they're a good team, and Wecker's really good. And Koehn, you know, we did a
really good job on her, I think. She got one layup on Jamie, but let's think
about what Jamie's done for two nights in a row. She's played 40 minutes,
face-guarded the three point shooter that runs all over the place on both
teams, and then we wonder why she doesn't have legs to make a layup. That kind
of thing I think factors into it. Hopefully we won't play back-to-back in the
NCAAs. Hopefully Nina will get back in the rotation and we'll have a little
more experience and depth.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thanks, coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 10, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Chelsea Whitaker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14506)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Opening statement from Coach Mulkey-Robertson, and then, again,
if you can address any one of the three players by the first name. Coach,
congratulations.

_

COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Thank you. As I told the team in the locker room, I'm
not sure we deserved to win the game, but we hung around long enough and we
refused to lose. We couldn't get in a flow offensively from the time Blackmon
got in foul trouble. I credit that to Texas Tech. You play somebody three
times, there's not a whole lot of secret, guys. We'll take the win.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the player athletes.

_ 

Q. Chelsea, obviously the last few weeks, you were a lot more aggressive
offensively. What is it that changed, that your game has changed so much in
the last few weeks?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: I don't know. I've reached a new level of comfort, and I
guess this is a good time to do that (laughter). I'm just playing the way I
know I can play. It's all working out, letting the game come to me. Sophia and
Steffanie draw so much attention, it's just a good stage for me to get
comfortable because I'm standing there wide open. I don't know. I'm just more
comfortable now than I've ever been since I've been in college.



Q. Chelsea, was that last play designed for you? Looked like the pass was to
Sophia, looked like she was specifically looking for you? Was it drawn up for
you?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: No. It was pretty much a broken play. But that's when the
best things happen sometimes, when a play is broken, because if we don't know
what we're doing, then they don't know. That's pretty much what we were doing.
I was just screaming at Sophia to give me the ball, because she was standing
in the corner with her girl and my girl standing by her. I knew they were
going to be running to Steffanie and Sophie as always. So I just went in there
and I was thinking about that Nebraska game when I bricked two of them and I
was wide open. So I just said, "I can't do that again." I just took it in
there and shot it.



Q. I don't remember who the player was coming over, there was a bigger player
coming over.



CHELSEA WHITAKER: I think it was Griffin. I saw her. I didn't care actually. I
just wanted to shoot and get a shot off. I was waiting on her to come a little
bit earlier because then I would have kicked it to Sophia or Steffanie. I
think it was Steffanie standing right there. But they didn't come because they
know that's what I'm looking to do, to pass it. I just shot the ball and pray
that it went in.



Q. Chelsea, y'all have won a lot of close games this year. Can you maybe talk
about the confidence y'all have in close games now?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: We have a lot of confidence because last year we lost a lot
of close games. I think we're pretty experienced in that and we don't want to
go that route any more. We can't start out like we did tonight, Saturday, for
sure. We learned a lot, we've grown a lot. We've played together for a few
years now. That's just paying off now.



Q. Steffanie, can you talk about that final sequence? Were you trying to foul
the girl before the inbound pass? Was that specific there?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: Yeah. We talked about that in the huddle, wanted to foul
before the clock started. I just went up and told the referees, trying to get
the pressure on the line.

COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Make sure it wasn't intentional. You gotta be very
careful there. You don't want to grab a jersey. Just kind of get real physical
and act like you're playing good defense, try to get a charge. Got to be real
careful there. You got to wait till they give the ball to the inbounder.



Q. (No microphone.)



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Sure. Don't I tell the ref everything during the
course of a game? Come on, Jerry (laughter). They just won't listen. They're
like my kids and my husband, they don't listen to me.



Q. Sophia, you're down I think eight fairly late. Were you starting to worry
or were you already worried? How confident were you there at the end?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, no, I wasn't worried because Coach Mulkey-Robertson asked
us in the huddle if we think the game is lost and sit on the bench. So I just
jumped up. But, no, I wasn't worried because I know we were in situations like
this before and we have confidence in each other to know that if we down, we
know what we need to do on defense and we know we needed to be really
aggressive on offense just like we were, hustling for loose balls and anything
we can get to just to bring the score like closer or anything like that. So,
no, weren't worried at all.



Q. Chelsea, I think the LSU game back at the start of the year ended in a
similar situation, broken play that didn't work. I think you threw it up,
desperation shot. How much has this team changed from that game to this game?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: We're a lot calmer now. I mean, that game, they had a couple
games under their belt. That was our first game together. I mean, it felt
awkward out there. We knew our potential, but we knew that we weren't there
yet. Of course, it's better to peak at the end of the season than it is, you
know, that early in the season, as a lot of the men's teams are doing. They're
kind of losing games at the end. It's the best thing that can happen to us is
just peak at the end. We're maturer now and we're calmer than anybody else,
because we're out there playing. Coach Mulkey-Robertson and her nerves, I know
we work her nerves. We just won. I'm just excited about it.



Q. Sophia, Steffanie, can y'all talk about what Chelsea has done for y'all's
offense? Her being able to knock down the jumpers, coming up with a play at
the end, like she said in Nebraska



SOPHIA YOUNG: Chelsea has been really big for us this year, jumping up and
hitting the foul line jump shots. Normally her man that comes in and doubles
us, so when we pass it to her, like I said, she's been really big in knocking
down the shots. I think I give Chelsea a lot of credit for the contributions
she brings to our team. Without her, there wouldn't be any us, so...

STEFFANIE BLACKMON: No doubt about it, Chelsea has definitely stepped up her
game. We all know what teams are going to do. She said, "Hey, I need to step
up, because I know the first person going to step up is me." She's definitely
made people respond to her. If they're not going to pay attention to her,
she's definitely stepped up and taken advantage of that.



Q. Steffanie, it looked like there were times in the game when you got
frustrated, like you were kind of forcing things inside. Was that Tech's
defense?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I don't think it's a forcing thing. I think one of the
things we try to do is attack, especially on offensive rebounds. We're trying
to get up there and go up strong. I mean, I don't know. I just feel like -- I
mean, we're definitely trying to attack and draw the foul, I mean, that's all
I can say.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thanks. We'll keep coach for a few more minutes.
Congratulations on making the finals. Questions for coach.

_ 

Q. Can you talk a little bit about how this team has grown from last year to
what they've done this year several times.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think you saw it in their play today. We were down
eight at the what minute mark, guys? Help me here. We had a timeout. I just
told them, "You know, if you think the game is over, tell me and I need to put
people in there that don't." I never saw really a sense -- look, I don't want
to use the word "frustration." We did not execute offensively, but a lot of
that goes to Tech's credit defensively. You might have seen a little bit out
of sync, but not frustration. I never sensed in a timeout when things weren't
going good for us or that we were behind that anybody was aggravated,
frustrated. They understand had we even lost today, the season's not over.
That's the approach that I would have had had I set up here and we would have
lost. The season would not be over. This is a good -- you don't want to use
warm-up games, but conference tournaments are warm-up games, guys, for the
NCAA playoffs for those teams that are already in the tournament. I wouldn't
exactly choose this kind of competition for a warm-up game. We're just very,
very I don't want to use the word "lucky" because I don't believe in luck. I
believe that you put yourself in positions to have something good happen to
you. And I felt like that we may not have deserved to win the game today, but
we hung around long enough to refuse to lose. That's what happened.



Q. There late when Niemann tried the 3-pointer, Blackmon put it back up. Is
that the right play? Should she have kicked it back out?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You're talking about when she shot the air ball?



Q. Yes.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Was contested coming up to the top foul line area, air
ball. She and Blackmon, Sophia and Blackmon got it and the other chunked it
back to the other right there. I talked about that play in the locker room a
minute ago. They had the same kind of play to Alesha Robertson, if you
remember. That's the kind of game it was. We had contested, something
happened, she missed a shot. They're going out of bounds. They flick it right
back to her. It was that kind of game. Was that the play assigned? What we
tried to do, as you guys have watched us play, I'm over there pulling my hair
out, get Abi in on defense, get Emily on offense, get this, okay. Emily needed
to be in on the offensive end and bring -- Emily can shoot the ball. Bring her
up high. If you have the look, great. Steffanie and Sophia are in there
rebounding. It was just a well-contested shot. It wasn't a bad shot.



Q. How different of a team are y'all when you don't hit a three, when you
don't have the perimeter shots falling?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You know, it's not that we're not good when we don't
hit a three. What I told the team at halftime is, we were not productive from
the perimeter, and that had nothing to do with scoring. I didn't feel like we
were getting the loose balls. I didn't feel like we were defending good. I
didn't feel like we were aggressive. Right before the half, all we got to do
is grab that ball right there, I think Erin slapped it right back out of our
hand, they score, go up three. It's in Toya's hands. Those are the things we
were not very good with in the first half with our perimeter game. There were
not a lot of three's made, I remember one three-pointer made for either team.
And that's what you expect when you have Tech, Baylor, Texas, all of us
pounding each other in there, know our strengths and weaknesses. There wasn't
anything Tech did, there wasn't anything we did that was any different than
we've done to each other all year.



Q. Before your last play, they called timeout.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: They didn't call timeout, they had a foul to give. Let
me tell you, we talked about that as a coaching staff. We said, They've got a
foul to give and they're going to use it, 'cause if they hadn't, Sophia was
wide open on the back-door pick. They called a timeout after the foul. We
bring them back. I've got to be honest with you, I've got so much confidence
in my senior leadership and my players, they talked me out of what I wanted to
run, okay? I wanted to run the same play. I shouldn't even tell you this in
case we have to run it again in the playoffs. But we were going to look for
Steffanie for the second, third optional off of that. They wanted to run
another play which does have Emily inbounding it as opposed to Chameka. I'm
one of these coaches, I played the game, and I believe players have a feel for
the game. I'm not too proud to listen and make changes. That was honestly the
change right there. Rachel was -- players looking me in the eye, going,
"Coach, they know the play now. They're going to drop back off." Which you
knew they were. We were going to use Steffanie coming off of a curl. The rest
is history. It was a broken play. Chelsea wanted the ball. Her girl doubled
down there on Sophia. She just took off with her dominant hand. We made the
shot.



Q. Second day in a row you were out-rebounded. Is that a concern? Take the win
and move on?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think it is a concern. But let me ask you this: If
you were going to play Baylor, what's the first way you better try to beat
'em? I think you better emphasize rebounding. There would probably be no doubt
in my mind that Coach Sharp has told them that, that Missouri has told them
that. That would be pounded in my head if I had to play against Blackmon and
Wabara, Sophia Young. It does concern you, but it doesn't concern me when you
win. We're going to continue to be a good rebounding team and we're going to
continue to work on it every day in practice. I don't like it, but it's close.
It's not 10 rebounds difference or anything like that, it's right there
together, one or two rebounds.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, congratulations. Thanks again.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Chameka Scott](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13905)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Coach Mulkey-Robertson, congratulations. We'll have your
opening statement, then throw it to players for just a few minutes for
questions.

_

COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I thought our team was very focused today. I thought
the first couple of minutes in the game we were challenged. They came at us
hard and aggressive rebounding, and it took us about two minutes to wake up
there. We finally got on a roll. I thought we played very good basketball
today.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players.

_ 

Q. Sophia, seems like y'all dominated inside, especially in the first half.
Can you talk about the passing, how y'all did it.



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, I think a lot of team's game plan is to come and double
us, so me and Steffanie posted them. So the guards are open a lot tonight. I
think we just did a real good job of just passing to each other and running
the floor a lot. Like coach said, I think we played pretty good tonight as a
team.



Q. Chameka, they came out quick on y'all. About 14 minutes to play, y'all had
those three consecutive steals, hit some fast breaks. How much did that get
y'all going?



CHAMEKA SCOTT: I think the steals and the fast breaks is pretty much Baylor
basketball. Like we feed off of our defense. I think that pressure kind of got
to them. The fact we got to complete a lot of the fast break points we got
really helped us and got us in the flow of the game back offensively in the
second half.



Q. Chameka, can you talk about how it did open it up for you? Seems like
particularly more in the second half, y'all kind of went inside out and it
opened up some for you on the three-pointers.



CHAMEKA SCOTT: I think my teammates did a really good job of getting the ball
around. A lot of the shots were coming off the transition or coming off the
screens. So I really credit everybody on the team for just moving well without
the ball and getting the ball to the right places at the right time.



Q. Chameka, like coach said, you started out really strong. Was that a
concerted effort? They already played a ballgame. You came out and acted like
you've been playing for a week.



CHAMEKA SCOTT: I think it was really something we concentrated on, just
jumping out on they will early, not putting ourselves in a position that we
couldn't get out of early. It was something we talked about. I think we did a
really good job of just coming out, kind of carrying over the momentum from
Thursday's game without kind of missing a beat. I think that really helped us
to establish a lead even though we kind of trailed off at the end of the first
half, that we gave ourselves a nice cushion.



Q. Sophia, I wonder if you would talk about the contribution of LaToya
tonight.



SOPHIA YOUNG: LaToya was big for us tonight. I think the way that she can
drive to the basket just created a lot of open players. She stepped up big
tonight. I have to give credit to LaToya for her ability to drive and her
ability to create.



Q. Sophia, can you talk about getting a little rest today. Looked like coach
did a good job of trying to give you and Steffanie and Chelsea some minutes on
the bench to maybe kind of rest you for a run here.



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, like Chameka said, we knew we came out strong and just
take a good lead at the beginning or in the middle of the game, then we can
rest up for the next game coming up because the games to come is going to be
pretty tough. It's not going to be anything easy. It was good that we played
so well, so me and Steffanie can get rest today.



Q. Chameka, concerned at all into the first half, end of the second half,
lulls there, offensive lulls?



CHAMEKA SCOTT: I think it's something we're aware of. I don't know if we were
concerned. There were a lot of things that happened that I think are very
correctable and things we can just go in and work on and talk about and fix
later on. I think we did a good job defensively, and that kept us in there
offensively. We weren't just, you know, letting them make a huge run at the
end, even though we weren't necessarily scoring as much.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, we'll let y'all go to get rest for tomorrow and keep
coach for a few more minutes. Questions for Coach Mulkey-Robertson.

_ 

Q. Beginning of the second half they cut it to 10, you called a timeout pretty
quick after that. Can you talk about Chameka and LaToya after you called that
timeout, how much they kind of took over?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, let me say something about LaToya. You know, I
don't want us to use the word "trademark" but a lot of the success we've had
this year has been the unexpected player. Once again you saw that today with
LaToya. I thought LaToya was on the floor. In her mind she thinks she stayed
out there because she's five for five from the field. I quickly let her know
she stayed out there because she was all over there defensively. She was
getting deflections, loose balls, knocking balls away. She was just very good
for us today. She's very quick. She has great lateral speed and quickness.
Then Chameka was nailing them from the three today. As I told the team after
the game, you know, you might better start making free-throws when you shoot
better from the 3-point line than you do from the foul line, you're pretty bad
today. And we were pretty bad from the foul line today.



Q. Can you talk a bit about the passing, especially early in the game? Y'all
really set up good shots.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Had a lot of ball movement. We had a lot of ball
movement, a lot of extra passes. When we do that, you know, it's hard to
guard, and it gets everybody involved. I think Abiola being involved early in
the game both offensively and rebounding really helped Steffanie and Sophia a
great deal. Abi, she's just strong. She is a strong player. When Sophia got in
foul trouble, and I don't want to say foul trouble, but when sofa a picked up
her first foul early action we are lucky that we have Abi that is six foot
that can go in and guard a post player so they don't keep pounding it down in
there and pick up Sophia's second foul. Back to your original question, we can
turn the ball over like that and create shots for everybody. It certainly
makes it a lot of fun to coach and a lot of fun to watch.



Q. Even though they've got some size, was the inside something you felt like
you could dominate or have some success inside early?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, I've got Steffanie and Sophia. I'm not -- it
doesn't matter how big the other team is, you're not going to go away from
your strengths. And Steffanie and Sophia have been so solid for us. Once
again, today. Had I played them more minutes, they would have both finished
with double-doubles. But I'm not by any means going to put them in a position
to get hurt or anything like that. It was the right thing to do. Get up and
down the floor. We had not been on this floor. We had not shot on this floor.
That concerned me a little bit. When I had a chance to get them off the floor,
we did.



Q. As you mentioned, you've got Sophia, you've got Steffanie. This truly is a
total team effort almost every night out.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I agree with you. I've said this before and I'll say
it today, you don't hide Steffanie and Sophia. Those guys are solid, they're
good, they're All-American. But we're not too shabby around them either. And
we have a lot of people that can help them, as you saw today, LaToya. She
hadn't been in the game productively in probably a week or two. It may be
Jordan Davis the next game, it may be Emily Niemann, it may be Chameka, it may
be Angela. There's a lot to choose from. It makes my job extremely difficult
through the course of a game. I don't have an eight-player rotation like you
probably should because this team has just challenged me to make sure I stay
on my toes and have the right people in the game that are helping us. I
thought Angela and LaToya in the first half were solid. They pushed the ball
up the floor for us, got post players open looks, running the floor. They gave
us a spurt of energy there in the first half when Chelsea and Chameka picked
up their second fouls.



Q. Could you expand on that. If that's the case, when you're coaching the
game, is the first five minutes an he evaluation period for what you think --
what kind of strings you need to pull?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It's not just the first five minutes; it's the course
of a game. You're watching what people are doing to you defensively. You
realize what's sitting next to me on that bench, what that player's particular
strength or weakness is. We've just been very fortunate to have a player
that's a great perimeter shooter. Then you've got one that's tremendously good
defensively, speed and quickness. Then you've got a big perimeter player.
There's just a lot of things that go through your mind as you're watching the
flow of a game. I'll tell you, it's not fun for me. It's not fun for me at all
as a coach because I like to just know my rotation of eight players. But this
team, as I said, just doesn't allow me to do that. I have to be on my toes and
make sure I know who needs to be inn the game at the right time. You've got
Emily and Abi, guys, that are perimeter three players, but they're also post
players. In fact, they're probably post players first that play the perimeter
for us with their size. One is a better offensive player from the perimeter
shooting. One is a driver, a slasher. I thought our defense was very good
today. I thought we were very aggressive, as we always are. I thought we
switched well on things that were taking place out there. And, like I said,
other than the first couple of minutes when they went to the boards hard, I
thought we responded. I just noticed on the stats that we were out-rebounded.
But I don't know that that's really the flow or the feel of that game with as
many players as we played, as early as we did late in the game. I'm not going
to just say our team got out-rebounded today. I think it was a case of a lot
of players for us playing and just took our team out of the flow.



Q. Can you talk about that stretch early where Whitaker I think had all three
steals, and y'all score on the other end? Got y'all going. I think it was a
13-0 run.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Chelsea is playing very good basketball. She's playing
under control. I can think of maybe two times tonight that were not very good
for her. It was a second foul she picked up driving down the paint. Maybe one
other time in transition I thought she should have faked and taken it herself
and she threw to Chameka on the run down the middle. I'm not sure that's all
point guard's fault, but since I was a point guard, I'm going to blame her.



Q. Can you talk about what it takes to be a role player like LaToya, not
knowing how many minutes you're going to play, having to step in whenever you
get the call?



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It tells you about her as a person. It tells you that
somebody raised her right. That it's more about the team than it is about
herself. LaToya came across the street from MCC College and had another year
of junior college eligibility. She came to Baylor, she wanted to be a part of
it. She'd come to games and would see the atmosphere. She wanted to be a part
of that. Ricky Rhodes and those guys would bring her over there to games. I'd
watch her play. Her lateral speed and quickness is very similar to Lambert's.
I know it's very difficult for all of them have to have to play a role. But I
can honestly tell you, they make it a joy for me to coach because I don't deal
with playing time problems, I don't deal with parent problems. That's probably
because I don't allow it to happen. I set the tone in recruiting. "Look, I'll
talk to you about a kid's health, their academics, anything you want to talk
about, but don't ever talk to me about basketball" because you can't give them
the answers they want. You can teach them how to improve, and you can coach
them, but you don't ever discuss that with them. And this team is just
remarkable. If you'll watch our timeouts, I saw this in the last game, Texas
Tech, when we won the conference championship, those players sprint to
halfcourt to acknowledge a teammate. I don't teach that. I'm not into
cheerleading. Some coaches do. I don't have time. I don't even know what
cheerleaders do, okay? But it's the atmosphere of being on a team that is
happy for everybody's success. And that's the kind of kid LaToya is.



Q. When you talk about defense, it seems to me the most elite level defenses,
you look at North Carolina, I feel your team is at that level. Make what even
should be an easy play hard. Do you think that's just a simple pass play, that
happened today.



COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think it's twofold. One, you've got the athletes and
the players that can do it. Two, I was brought up and played for some of the
legends of the game. And if you didn't guard people, you didn't play. We kind
of set that tone at Baylor. Particularly when we took over the job, that's all
we could sell right then. We didn't know what we had offensively. So you had
to sell the aggressive defensive attitude, and just give it everything you
have on the floor. This team has a lot of speed and quickness, has a lot of
size, has a lot of bigness about it. If you want to go with a small lineup,
speed and quickness, we can. If you want to go with good size that has good
speed and quickness, we can. Then if we get real slow, I might play a little
zone.

_

THE MODERATOR: Congratulations again.

_

COACH MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Megan Mahoney](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16317)

### [Deb Patterson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14194)

### [Kendra Wecker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14504)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have an opening statement by Coach Patterson.
Congratulations. Your thoughts about the game.

_

COACH PATTERSON: Thank you. I thought it was a good overall team effort by our
basketball team. Very pleased that we had an opportunity to share a lot of
minutes and thought on both ends of the floor. Our bench stayed very committed
to execution. That was very important for our basketball team as we worked to
move through the stretch run of the season and enter into post-season play.

_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have a few minutes of questioning for our student
athletes. As you know,Kendra Wecker became the all-time Big-12 leading scorer
with 22-48.

_ 

Q. Kendra, what does it mean to you? What was the first conversation with
Nicole like?



KENDRA WECKER: I didn't talk to her till I got into the locker room. She just
said, "Congratulations." You know, it means a lot to me. But I think the most
important thing about this evening was our win and us getting the chance to
play tomorrow in the Big-12 tournament. You know, it's a great honor. It's a
record that I'm sure someday will be broken. It's great to have it right now,
but somebody's going to come along through the Big-12 league and break the
record someday. That's totally fine. The most important thing, like I said
right now, is for us to get this win and advance in the tournament.



Q. Megan, you guys have won five straight now with an average of 22 points.
They haven't even been close. Now you're going to face a Texas team y'all lost
to by four on your home court. Talk about that rematch?



MEGAN MAHONEY: We're definitely excited to have the opportunity to play Texas.
They're obviously a great team, definitely have some great players, Jamie
Carey, Tiffany Jackson, Schreiber. We're just excited to get out there and
have that opportunity and battle because this is what it's all about, you
know, advancing in this tournament. Both teams are going to come out swinging
so we're just looking forward to that.



Q. Kendra, did you notice the ovation you were getting even while Nebraska had
possession, and Nebraska fans joined in during the timeout? What did it mean
to you?



KENDRA WECKER: I heard them mention something over the PA about the record. I
was in the heat of a timeout so I was listening to Coach P.

COACH PATTERSON: Thank you.

KENDRA WECKER: You're welcome. That's my job. No, but after I made that shot,
then it's kind of a rush for everybody. It was just exciting. I thank the
Nebraska fans for their support, you know, obviously our fans as well.



Q. Kendra, did you know that was the basket? Were you keeping track in the
back of your mind?



KENDRA WECKER: I'm not going to lie. A little bit. You know, it wasn't
something that I was, you know, obviously concentrating on coming into this
game because my first and foremost thing is to do whatever I can to help this
team win. You know, like I said earlier, tonight it was a great team victory
and everyone got involved and had something to do with the win. I guess it is
kind of a little bit of relief, you know, to get that out of the way. We can
just move on from here.



Q. Coach, can you talk about your team's fantastic first half shooting-wise?



COACH PATTERSON: Well, again, I think offensively we played with a great deal
of confidence and did a nice job distributing the ball, just I thought brought
great tempo to the game as we started the game. You know, they got the first
basket. I think it took us a couple possessions to really get confident. But,
again, it's been a while since we played. I like the fact that the ball was
touching a lot of hands. You know, we were fortunate to get on track early. It
was a struggle for them on the other end to get consistent production. I think
that was important. And then valuing our possessions. Last time we played
Nebraska, we had a lot of turnovers. I thought it was important for us
particularly in the first half to establish we were going to take care of the
ball.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, we'll keep coach for a few more minutes. Congratulation
for the win. See you tomorrow. Questions for Coach Patterson.

_ 

Q. Can you talk about Nebraska's offensive struggles? You played them three
times now. What did you see tonight from them? Obviously, you played good
defense. What did you see from them tonight offensively that made you believe
they struggled?



COACH PATTERSON: Well, you know, there are some nights when your team, for
whatever reason, just does have difficulty putting the ball in the basket.
This is a Nebraska team that has played extremely well relative to the
personnel and experience that they bring to the floor. You know, they're still
very young. Their junior college players are young in the system. Kiera Hardy,
who had to carry such a major load for them, has become a player that everyone
in this league, the last five or six games, has brought their best defenders'
attention to her. You understand Jina Johansen is their only senior. They're
bound from situation to situation to struggle when they're playing a senior-
dominated basketball team or be on the road. You know, there's just some
situations where it's tough because the people you're competing against are
more experienced, they're better individually at that stage in their career. I
think on a night like tonight in the atmosphere that Nebraska was confronted
with, all of those things contributed to their struggles. Our players did a
great job with assignment defense. They did a real good job of maintaining
discipline relative to their personnel. At the same time, this is a Nebraska
basketball team that's had a great season. In my opinion, they have maximized
every ounce of ability that they've had over the course of the season. And
tonight they had to line up against a basketball team that at this stage in
our career, we're a better basketball team. We're more experienced. We've got
a player on our team that just broke the Big-12 scoring record. It's a tough
mountain to climb. So I think, you know, it was a lot of things. But credit
our players for doing a nice job defensively, but also credit theirs for the
great season, the great fight, the great second half that they brought to the
floor in terms of their fight and competitiveness.



Q. Last game with Texas, Tiffany Jackson only had eight points. Schreiber got
loose on you. Do you take a different approach for this game coming up
tomorrow?



COACH PATTERSON: Well, we have to because we lost the first game. We
definitely have to change. You know, I don't think you can ever expect to see
Tiffany Jackson score in single digits. I mean, you're definitely dreaming a
very good dream, you know, if you're thinking that. I think overall, as we
face this great Texas basketball team, we will have to play significantly
better in every aspect of the game because what we brought to the floor wasn't
enough to beat them. While I was pleased overall with our interior defense,
our perimeter defense was lacking. As you said, Jamie Carey and Heather
Schreiber pretty much scored at will on the perimeter that first time out. So
needless to say, we need to bring a much higher level of accountability and
awareness to where they are on the floor and then finish that by denying them
the open looks that we provided the first time. You know, one of the
challenges Texas presents is the fact they are so talented and so versatile in
their ability to attack you and be efficient inside and out. That's the
challenge you face with a great basketball team like that with the athleticism
and that outside scoring threat. So certainly we will have to be significantly
better over all with our approach to that perimeter defense.



Q. Can you talk about the record, what it means to you as a coach? You've now
had two players break it in consecutive years.



COACH PATTERSON: Well, it's just a tribute to those players individually.
First of all, Nicole Ohlde, and secondly obviously Kendra Wecker. Each of them
during the course of their career literally elevated the level of basketball
played at Kansas State University. They've done it with great class, with
great consistency. What's amazing is to have two players like Nicole Ohlde and
Kendra Wecker who have achieved that standard and at the same time have been
team first players their entire career. I think it's very odd to see two
players that are as selfless as they are and as committed to winning and ready
to set aside individual accolades to help their team win, achieve at the level
they have. I think that's one of the things that's absolutely exceptional and
phenomenal about both of them. Nicole Ohlde has transitioned into a great
professional player, and Kendra Wecker will do the same. But what they've
brought to our program and to this league in my mind is just so special, not
just because of what they've done but because of how they've done it. You
know, if young people across the country could use those two as an example of
achieving excellence while at the same time building their program and helping
their team win, boy, it would be a very special thing. I don't know that there
will ever two like those two again in this league from the same team. I think
it's a very special experience that we've lived. You can see the results in
the success that our program has had.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks. Congratulations.

_

COACH PATTERSON: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Jina Johansen](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16316)

### [Connie Yori](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13896)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, we appreciate you and the players joining us tonight. We
had a change in personnel. Jina Johansen and Kiera Hardy will be here for
Nebraska. Coach, your thoughts about the game.

_

COACH YORI: Well, I'm sorry that we didn't give K State a better game. You
know, obviously it wasn't what we were anticipating. Credit to Kansas State
for playing their basketball the way they wanted to play their basketball.
They really took us out of what we wanted to do. We had a hard time finding
the basket. I'm not saying that facetiously. Obviously it was a very difficult
time. We had a very difficult time scoring, you know, couldn't seem to get
anything to go, even when we did have good looks. But, again, credit to Kansas
State I think for playing with some good intelligence. They got out and ran,
some easy baskets there. We wanted to try to up-tempo it a little bit
defensively, but it's pretty difficult to do that when you only score six
field goals in the first half. We weren't able to really get after it
defensively in a pressing situation because we weren't able to put the ball
through the hole.

_

THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for the players briefly.

_ 

Q. Coach, this is about Kendra Wecker. A little bit about her this game, her
record-breaking number.



COACH YORI: I don't know about the record. You have to fill me in on that.



Q. Big-12 all-time leading scorer now. Just how do you cover her or try to
cover her?



COACH YORI: Well, she's obviously -- I mean, I don't know if there's been any
adjectives that have not been used in a positive way to describe Kendra
Wecker. I mean, she's a great player. She's a great player in all phases of
the game. She's a competitor and she's a great scorer, but she's also a great
defender on the other end, great rebounder. Again, you know, I think Kendra
Wecker, we've all as coaches said a lot about what she means to this league
and what she's done for Kansas State, to elevate their program. It was a
typical Kendra Wecker day. Actually, she wasn't the one that hurt us as much
as their team did. But, again, she's a great player.



Q. Jina, can you talk about your post-season hopes and what y'all are
thinking?



JINA JOHANSEN: Yeah. I guess now hopefully we'll make it in the NIT. I think
NCAA is out of the question. But NIT, it's a good thing to go to. It keeps us
playing against the younger players. Play some or games. Lets me play some
more games. We're excited about making any post-season, just having the
opportunity.



Q. Jina, can you address your team's offensive struggles tonight. Was there a
source of it? What was the problem with the offense tonight, in your
estimation?



JINA JOHANSEN: We couldn't make any shots. It was probably both. K State had
really good defense. Like the last time we played them at home, it was kind of
the same thing. We just couldn't make any shots. We didn't turnover quite as
much this time. But, you know, their defense is good and they know what we
want to do, what the players like to do. They kind of just take it away from
us. That's basically it.



Q. Jina, does a game like this make you want to get back on the court even
more?



JINA JOHANSEN: Not right now (laughter). Maybe if we have a couple days off
and we can kind of get away from this. But kind of, I guess. Kind of makes me
want to play and not end my career like this.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thank you. Want to wish you guys good luck in post-
season. We'll keep coach for just a couple more minutes. Questions for Coach,
please.

_ 

Q. Would you address the post-season as well.



COACH YORI: Well, we think obviously we can still hold out hope for the NCAA
tournament. But I think logically we're going to be an NIT team. And we think
that we can be a good NIT team and maybe make a push in that tournament and
get some home games, and hopefully win a few of them.



Q. Coach Patterson said that you guys probably maximized all that you could
out of your team, your talent this year. Is there more to it than that or did
you really kind of run out of steam or peak too early a few games ago?



COACH YORI: We played games this year -- we played in a manner this year at
times that I was surprised that we could play that well. We won some games
that we in a lot of ways probably shouldn't have won. As a coach, you go into
every game preparing the same way, and you go in it with the intention of
winning, but you also know that there are times when you are out-manned or
out-womaned, I should say. We had some great wins against teams this year
where, you know, if you put our team player to player up against our opponent,
they're better than us individually, but I think collectively we won some
games this year because of the way we played together. So, therefore, what
Coach Patterson said is true. We did maximize and some of the things we had
hoped to do. I think people know how to play us now. I don't know if they knew
how to play us before. I think our opponents have figured out that there's
some things that they can do to take our strengths away. I think that's what
they've done. To me it's really obvious that they've done it. I don't know if
it's obvious to the common fan. But it's pretty obvious.



Q. What do you say to them at halftime? Obviously the effort is there, but
they're not making any shots. What can you say to them at that point?



COACH YORI: Well, I thought our effort could have been better. I mean, I
thought we were tired. I'm not making excuses. But, you know, we didn't play
with the energy level that we have at times. We weren't aggressive I think
more than anything. I just said, "We need to get aggressive. We need to take
the ball to the basket. We need to try to make plays and we need to get
aggressive." You know, that's what we tried to do in the second half. I mean,
we had a little bit better offensive production in the second half, but I
don't think 28 points is obviously great. At least we were able to put the
ball in the hole a little bit more. But we just said, "Keep fighting, but also
pick up your effort a little bit and play through a little bit of fatigue." I
just didn't think we had the emotional edge that we have sometimes. I thought
that was something that I was a little disappointed in.



Q. Saying you guys maybe maxed out, your opponents are trying to figure out
how to play you, what convinces you you can make a deep run, considering the
way it's gone?



COACH YORI: I think that's a legitimate question. But we're going to get back
to practice and maybe put a few things in that we feel we can try to identify
that will help our team and find a way to score in ways that maybe we haven't
before and try to identify those things that we can use. I think we wanted to
extend defense tonight, like I said. We need to maybe get better at that. We
haven't worked at it as much and broken it down as much as we would have
liked, and we've done it more here lately. But we just didn't think earlier in
the year we were deep enough to do. Then when we can't score in the halfcourt,
we felt like we needed to go to that. So that's something I think we can get
back to and work at and get better at. Hopefully that will help us get some
wins.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, good luck in the post-season.

_

COACH YORI: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Erin Grant](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13910)

### [Alesha Robertson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13852)

### [Marsha Sharp](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13845)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Congratulations to coach Marsha Sharp and her student athletes.
Coach, we'll have you deliver an opening statement, then have questions for
our student athletes here.

_

MARSHA SHARP: Well, it was a great game. I think probably what you would
expect out of four and five in the Big-12 conference. A lot of players on the
floor that wanted to win today obviously. It's fitting probably that it came
down to a last shot because it was that competitive all the way through. They
would make a play, we'd make one offensively or defensively, one or the other,
to give ourselves a chance to win. They're so well-coached that you know it's
going to be a chess match the entire game. We made a couple of big plays at
the end to win. I'm really proud how we came out and played the second half in
particular. I thought we were maybe a little tentative the first half, and
maybe we were the more aggressive team in the second half. It gave us a chance
to get some looks at the basket without having to look over their defense
quite as much as we did the first half. I thought it was a key. Certainly we
had players that made big plays. There's going to be some folks that are
probably going to be honored because of baskets they made, and even though
Erin made some baskets, it's not obviously the thing she does the most. She's
such a warrior. She goes and makes plays on both ends of the floor. She led
our basketball team in a great way today. Alesha stepped up and made two big
free-throws at the end. I know that that's something that should happen, and
she was really ready to do that, and we're really proud of how they played.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions.

_ 

Q. Alesha, can you talk about that last play, the one you got the free-throws
on? Was that something you saw earlier in the game?



ALESHA ROBERTSON: Well, in that last timeout that Coach Sharp had called, she
did see that earlier. She was saving it. It was definitely open.



Q. Erin, you probably knew how their game finished yesterday with that
3-pointer. After Alesha did make the two free-throws, were you thinking that
was plenty of a time for a team to come back?



ERIN GRANT: Yes, we did watch the game yesterday. We were fully aware that
they can make things happen at the end of the ballgame. So we just didn't want
to let them have a 3-point shot off especially. They did get a good look over
LaToya and Chelsey, but we came out on top.



Q. Erin, you entered the locker room down by six at halftime. What did you say
to motivate yourself?



ERIN GRANT: Well, there's a few things we didn't do well in the first half as
far as offensive rebounds that we let them have. We let them have a lot of
put-backs. We just tried to limit that in the second half and really attack
them, push the tempo. Those are the things we talked about at halftime. I
think it really helped us.



Q. Alesha, can you talk about being able to match or better them from 3-point
range?



ALESHA ROBERTSON: Well, Iowa State is a good 3-point shooting team. We just
had to play real good defense, produce on the opposite side.



Q. Erin, can you talk about the big 3-pointer from the freshman there at the
top of the key?



ERIN GRANT: Yes, Judith hit the 3-pointer from the top of the key. It was
really big for us. Really, really big. She isn't scared of anything. She loves
this type of atmosphere. That's why she can step up and hit that shot in that
type of situation. We're happy to have her on our team and be able to step up
like that.



Q. Playing at a neutral site like this, what is it like? It's not so neutral
here against Iowa State. What was the feeling out there than oh the court?



ERIN GRANT: The feeling for us was they had a lot of fans out there, it was
somewhat like playing on their home court a little bit because they had so
many fans. But we brought some as well and they led us to a victory.

ALESHA ROBERTSON: I think the atmosphere was great. I like to go to places and
have a lot of people cheering for the opposite team, coming out with the win
was my favorite part.



Q. Can I get your thoughts now on playing Baylor?



ERIN GRANT: I'm happy to play Baylor again. We played them about a week ago.
We want to fix some things we did last game and take another shot at them to
get to the championship game of this conference tournament.

ALESHA ROBERTSON: I'm definitely excited to play them again and I'm very, very
glad we get a chance to do it. We'll see what happens.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Sharp.

_ 

Q. If you could talk about Erin, she played all 40 minutes, didn't have a
single turnover, nine assists. Talk about her role in the game today?



MARSHA SHARP: Obviously I'm old so I've coached a lot of players. I don't know
if I've ever coached one that is as much a warrior as she is. She will go do
whatever she thinks she can do to make her team win, and that's in a lot of
different ways. I think she had a couple big steals. She has the mentality of
bringing it at you. I inherited a great player. She one four straight
championships in Texas and led her team. It's never been done before, when she
was a high school player. She learned how to win. She came out of a great high
school program and she's done great things for us at Tech. She has a perfect
mentality for a point guard because she almost refuses to lose and tries to do
anything she can to lead her team in a positive way.



Q. They can kill you with their 3-point shooting. You seemed to respond every
time they hit one. Talk about that and the one at the end.



MARSHA SHARP: I thought there were two things that were going to be real
important for us on that end of the floor, maybe four, because Robinette can
hurt you so much in a one-on-one situation. We didn't do the second one very
well. The first half we gave up 10 offensive boards. In the second half, I
think we cut that down and gave up five or six. It probably honestly became
the difference in the game. But I think particularly when you're playing them
in an atmosphere where they have their fans with them, they love the 3-point
shot. They gain a lot of energy and the crowd gains a lot of energy off that.
You have to take that away from them consistently if you want a chance to win.
Or the other thing you have to do is if you let them hit one, you almost have
to come down and answer immediately to try to take the crowd back out of it. I
thought at least we did that. When we gave up one, we came down, made sure we
got a good shot off. We had a good plan to try to limit the amount of momentum
they got a off of the 3-point shot.



Q. I think with under three minutes to go in the first half, they led 35-26,
it wasn't a big run, but how crucial was it after that lead to be down just
six at the half?



MARSHA SHARP: Big. And I thought we had a couple of pretty good defensive
stands in there and made a couple of plays finally on our end. I thought that
was really big. Two parts of it. That was big and the two shots that Chesley
Dabbs made coming out of the second half out of halftime I thought were huge
for us, a three and a two.



Q. After having seen them yesterday, how nervous were you going out on the
court the last play?



MARSHA SHARP: Way nervous. I try not to throw up on the bench, but it entered
my mind a couple of times.



Q. Katie Robinette had a great first half. I think she only hit two shots in
the second half. I know she sat out some. Did you do anything to really try to
take the inside from her?



MARSHA SHARP: We changed defensive players a lot against her. We had three
players that defended her most of the game. I'll tell you something that we're
beginning to find that we really like honestly is we think that Darrice
Griffin is becoming a great defensive player. She has enough speed she can
keep people getting it to the rim. She's big enough, they have a hard time
shooting it over. We really used her on two people, and she played a majority
of the second half. Robinette, she guarded for a long time and she also
guarded O'Neil when O'Neil was attacking the rim. I think she made a
difference, just a little bit longer arm, bigger, to try to play over. It was
a big part of us, what I said a while ago, the three parts that Robinette
didn't score the second half.



Q. You just touched on what I wanted to ask. Darrice played an awful lot of
minutes tonight. What did you think of Iowa State's strategy to bring her in,
bringing O'Neil into the lanes?



MARSHA SHARP: Well, we felt they were taking Dabbs there. Dabbs got in a
little bit of foul trouble. We needed her on the floor. We don't want to play
too long on the other end without her because she just makes such good
decisions, not only the points that Chesley scores, but the other she sets up
for other players. We switched them and let Darrice guard her. Again, I
thought that their whole strategy was to get us to the rim and get us in foul
trouble. Darrice is bigger there. She was having to shoot over about 10 or 12
inches more arm than she was with Dabbs, whenever she took it to the rim. I
think it probably helped us three or four trips in a row that really made a
difference for us.



Q. Going back to Judith, you put her in with four minutes left in the game.
Were you thinking maybe there was a spark there she could give?



MARSHA SHARP: You know, I think right now some people, just because she hasn't
played quite as many minutes in Big-12 play, they don't know exactly what they
want to do with her. They know exactly what they want to do with Robertson or
Dabbs, but they're not sure if they want to come guard her or leave her out
there and let her shoot it. I think we saw that the other night at Baylor. We
saw it again today. She has an opportunity to probably shoot it a few more
times than Alesha does because of the way people defend her, and she's a good
shooter. It worked tonight. It gave us a spark, against Baylor the other
night, too. She'll be a big part of us in post-season play. I've made the
comment a lot this year that we should be better in March than January because
of the freshmen. And I think Darrice and Judith both gave us a look at that
today. They're beginning to make plays more consistently, understand what we
need in big situations than they did two months ago.



Q. Can you talk about getting another shot at Baylor this year.



MARSHA SHARP: Well, you know, they're a great team. I happen to think they're
one of the top two or three teams in the nation. I think because of their
depth, the different ways they can hurt you, they're that good. But I tell
you, this time of year it's great to be able to do that. Fortunately or
unfortunately, we're going to get to do it twice within a week or eight days.
I think it's good for us to get ready for next week no matter the outcome of
the game. Certainly you probably help yourself with the win, at least your
confidence probably because of how much respect we have for them. They're
going to make you guard a lot of different things. You have to play a really,
really great basketball game to have a chance to beat 'em. But I do think
we're excited about the chance. We want to stay another day. We wanted to get
to that round of the tournament. We want to have a chance to play and take
another shot. We're going to get to do that. We have a good game plan. The
good part for me is we're only seven days away from playing them last, so
everything's pretty fresh on my mind about what we need to do with them, and I
think our players, too. We'll take our best shot and see what happens.



Q. Last year kind of reverse role, you had swept them during the regular
season. This year they swept you. Tough to beat a team three times. I know
that's a cliche.



MARSHA SHARP: I hope so. I hope it will be. I think it is. The thing that you
got to think about them, though, is they're a big-time team. I don't think
they're worried about how many times they beat anybody. They're going to play
with a lot of energy. That's what Kim brings every time. They're going to be
set on go. They probably didn't play as many hard minutes today as we did.
We've got some things do deal with there. This time of year you're fired up to
get to play another day and get to stay and take another shot. We'll be
excited to do that tomorrow night.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thank you.

_

COACH SHARP: For Big-12 women's basketball, this is kind of cool. 15 years ago
there would be like three of you sitting down here on the front row. Thank you
for doing that.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Bill Fennelly](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13850)

### [Anne O'Neil](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14502)

### [Katie Robinette](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16311)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We have Coach Fennelly and Anne O'Neil, Katie Robinette. We'll
have your opening thoughts, then throw it to questions.

_

COACH FENNELLY: First of all, I'd like to sincerely thank the Big-12,
especially the people of Kansas City. It was a great show, fun to be back, a
great event. We're honored to be a part of it and we want to thank everyone. I
know it's a hard thing to put one of these things on. We appreciate it, and
our players and fans and staff are the benefits of all that hard work. I mean
that sincerely. I appreciate that very much. Also I want to congratulate Tech.
They're an outstanding team. They're 12th in the nation for a reason. Well-
coached, a lot of weapons. Very worthy of doing a great job I think in the
NCAA tournament for the Big-12. Lastly, I'm as proud of our team today as I
was yesterday. I'm someone that does not believe that student athletes should
be evaluated by what happened 40 minutes on one score board, in one gym, one
building, one time. We lost a basketball game today, but we gained a lot more.
We have quality people who represent our University. We have the best fans in
the country. It hurts to lose, but as much as it hurts to lose, it makes me
feel a lot better knowing I get to get on the bus with these people and I get
to coach them a little bit longer. They have been a part of my life for a long
time. The way I feel about them today is even greater than what's been in the
past because of the way they handled themselves and how hard they played
today. Great college game. Yesterday we made one more play, and today they
made one. That's the nature of the game. That's March. I hope everyone enjoyed
it who was here.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the player athletes.

_ 

Q. Anne, the last shot, talk about it, how good it felt coming off?



ANNE O'NEIL: You know, with three seconds left, we designed this play and
practiced it almost every day in practice. One of the hardest parts of it is
to even catch the ball. As soon as I saw the pass, I knew it was coming right
to me. I was just concentrating on catching it. I was kind of happy. I got a
really great look at it. It was probably one of the best looks I had all
night. As soon as I let it go, I thought I had a shot and maybe it would
bounce around a little bit. It's one more play we made yesterday that didn't
happen today. But I did have a great look at it.



Q. Katie, where did you think they were going whenever they went inside to
Alesha on that last play for them?



KATIE ROBINETTE: Well, we thought maybe they'd try and lob it in there. We
were going to try and tip away the lob. Otherwise you don't really expect
Alesha inside. Figure she'd be out shooting. We were trying to be prepared for
anything.



Q. Anne, can you talk about the defense. They didn't let you guys get a whole
lot of open 3-point looks. It was hard to post up inside. What did they do
that made it hard for you guys?



ANNE O'NEIL: I think all around, you know, they're great athletes, very
disciplined basketball players. Obviously, they had our personnel down very
well, just like they did last game when we played them. You know, we just
tried to counter with driving to the hoop, trying to get to the free-throw
line a little bit, trying to get the ball to Katie, transition-wise if we did
have an open look, to put it up. It was an exciting game to be a part of, you
know, having the possessions go back and forth, our fans into it. It was a lot
of fun. It's just that it's kind of disappointing to lose, but we'll move on.



Q. Can you talk about the first half and second half? First half, 10 points,
eight boards. Second half a little foul trouble.



KATIE ROBINETTE: Like Anne said, they're great defenders, great athletes in
every aspect of their game. Yeah, I got in foul trouble. Probably had a bad
call on my third one, had to sit out for a while. You know, I think overall we
played better than we did yesterday. Like Anne said, it was an exciting game
to be a part of. Too bad somebody has to lose.



Q. Can you take something out of this, you guys really did play well, even
though it's a loss? You played a top team, played them to the wire.



ANNE O'NEIL: I think a little after the game, it's bittersweet. We're happy
the way we played at the end. Over our regular season, we hadn't played that
well. Finally we just came out and played very aggressive. Everyone was into
the game. Everyone contributed even off the bench, which made it exciting. We
know we still have a lot to look forward to in the NCAAs. I can definitely say
after these last two games, we definitely have participated in March Madness
and we hope to continue it.

KATIE ROBINETTE: I'm feeling a little urgent here because now it's for real.
It will be over after our next game, win or go home. Fight to stay alive. I
think we'll be ready to go, I promise.

COACH FENNELLY: Write that down (laughter).

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, congratulations. Questions for Coach Fennelly.

_ 

Q. Do you think you had it in you one more time?



COACH FENNELLY: You know, what I said in the timeout was we won it on the six-
second played yesterday; today we're going to win it on the three-second play.
That's what I told them. Sparks made a great pass. All you want is a shot.
We've all been through so many games. That's what I told them at the end, Anne
is hurting right now, but that game could have been lost in the first 17
seconds of the game. We've all been through that. It went exactly the way we
wanted. We had our go-to player with her hands on the ball. She had a look at
it. It didn't go in. We'd run the same play again, again and again. Yesterday
she made a great decision and kicked it to an open kid. Tonight she made a
great decision and shot it. You have to have courage to make that play.
Yesterday it went in, today it didn't. They get tired of me talking about
life. That's the way life is. We were pretty dang happy last night. We're
feeling pretty bad today. You got to get up and keep fighting. God willing,
this team I think deserves to be in the NCAA tournament. I don't talk about
that stuff much. That's what I told them in the locker room. They're all
crying. I mean, I've never seen this team so hurt, individually or
collectively. But what I told them was the good thing is, we're not done yet.
We get to play again. That's the best part, like I said.



Q. You have your go-to player, she had the ball. Tech doesn't really have that
one player you knew the ball was going to. What were y'all thinking?



COACH FENNELLY: What we told them in the timeout was, Watch the lob. Actually,
Anne O'Neil spoke up and said, "Watch the curl to Robertson." We tried to Jam
it in there. They ran a good play. We were about a step late. Really, Anne
seriously in the timeout said, "Watch the curl to Robertson." We had a foul to
waste. I told them if the ball went away from the basket, they caught it, go
ahead and take the foul. They did a good job. She found a gap in between Katie
and Mary, caught it and shot it before we even had a chance to react. But it
was a great play by them in a tough situation. Well-designed.



Q. When you guys are struggling, that was big.



COACH FENNELLY: I think Lisa, might have been one of the best games she ever
played at Iowa State, considering the time of the year, the opponent,
everything. Lisa, it's hard to put into words how proud I am of her. This is a
senior that's been kind of up and down at times, has probably supported me
more than any player I've ever coached, at times when she didn't have to, to
family, to friends. She's not playing a lot. This isn't even a game unless
Lisa plays the way she played. It was fun to watch. I know it's hard to lose,
but I hope she feels like, hey, this is the kind of game that I want to play
at Iowa State. It was amazing the plays she made. I was very proud of her.
Again, I think she made the kind -- did the kind of things that allowed us to
have a chance to win. For a senior who comes off the bench, that says a lot.
Most seniors in her spot would be pouting, feeling sorry for themselves,
whatever. She's been just the opposite. That's the credit to her. It's been an
honor to coach her. I'm glad I get to see her again in practice on Saturday.
Lisa, you're not supposed to be here. I wouldn't have said all those nice
things about you (laughter).



Q. (No microphone.)



COACH FENNELLY: It was perfect except the ball didn't go in the basket. I
mean, dead perfect. We run a screen to screener play. We bring Anne to the top
of the circle. Tracy is supposed to throw it like a quarterback. It doesn't --
we don't do it that well 5-on-0 in practice. Lisa will attest to that.
Seriously, we caught it right. We set a good screen. Again. All you want is a
chance. You got to go the length of the court in 2.7 seconds. We had a chance.
It went very well. Again, that's a credit to the kids. The time and
concentration we put into practice, they know what they need to do, they get
into their spots, try and make a play. That's all you can do in that
situation.



Q. You had a nine-point lead in the first half, eight points in the second
half. Was there ever a point where you thought, one more basket, maybe stagger
them?



COACH FENNELLY: When Katie got her second foul in the first half, that hurt us
a little bit. We couldn't finish the half off maybe as well as we'd like.
Their defense is very good. They're the best defensive team in the league
statistically. You look at points per game, defensive field goal percentage,
they did a great job of really making it hard for us to get some shots. Then
we had some really good looks at the basket, too, that we missed. But that's
what happens. The think I always tell our kids is never be surprised when
you're open because you play a great defensive team, all of a sudden you're
open, you're not used to being open. You got to be ready to shoot that shot.
We shoot 33% from the field and we still have a shot at the buzzer against a
great team to win the game. That means you're playing hard, you're defending.
We defended them a hundred percent better than we did in Lubbock. Again, their
defense is really good. I don't think there's a whole lot of different things
we could have done. You get a little leg wary, your shots are a little short.
We had some really good looks at the basket. Anne obviously hit some big plays
going through the goal. Lisa had some shots. Other than that, we couldn't seem
to get the right shots at the right time for the right team. Again, that's
Tech's defense.



Q. What do you think about your position heading into the NCAAs?



COACH FENNELLY: Well, I'm not trying to be smart here, I never assume
anything. I would hope we're in the NCAA tournament. That's the committee's
job. It's not my place to say who we are, who we aren't. I think this team has
done over 29 games, if you look at their body of work, that we deserve to be
in the NCAA tournament. Wherever they put us, I will be ecstatic. I don't
care. They can send me anywhere they want to send us, play anybody. I don't
care. I've said this back home, besides my wife and my boys, everything I do
all year has been trying to get this team to the NCAA tournament. Our seniors
deserve that. Katie and Anne have never played in the tournament. Hopefully,
God willing, Sunday at 4:00, whenever, we'll see Iowa State's name come up.
It's not about women's basketball, it's about our University. Hopefully we'll
be a good representative of our conference. Hopefully an hour later Wayne and
the men's name will come up. I'm bragging, this is a paid political
announcement, but you look at our football program, our men's and women's
basketball program, I think we're doing our job in the Big-12 in representing
our league. It's going to be fun. You saw a celebration last night when
Medders hit that shot. You'll see me jumping up and down when our name comes
up there. That's a scary thought. I think we're in good shape. I think even
though we lost today, our kids figured they could play with a good team down
to the wire. Like Katie said, and Katie never says anything she doesn't mean,
I think they'll be ready to play, I really do. Whoever we get, it will be a
good team. I told them now is the time they're going to face a good team every
time out. We want to be a good team. The last time we walk out of the
building, last time we're going to walk out together with our heads up knowing
we competed as hard as we could. Whoever that is, we'll take it and we'll
represent our school as best we can and it will be an honor to play in it if
we get selected.



Q. Ever since the Baylor game, I think the last three regular-season games and
yesterday's game, I don't think (inaudible) today you saw Iowa State at its
best?



COACH FENNELLY: Yeah, I think as far as the effort, the attention to detail,
all the things we talk about every day in practice, yes. I wouldn't trade that
for today, the emotion today, the focus today for anything. We just didn't
make enough shots. You look at some of the numbers again, that's not our team.
We're a team that plays hard, hopefully plays smart, then we have to make some
shots. That sounds very simplistic, but that's our game. We're not going to
create turnovers. We need to make open shots. We didn't make enough of them
today. Great defense by Tech. Just wasn't going to happen. That's the nature
of the game. That's why they call it basketball. The ball goes in the basket,
you look really good. Ball doesn't go in the basket, you feel like we do right
now. But, no, I'm very, very pleased with where we are right now. Looking
forward to getting back to practice and getting ready to lay some up one more
time.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Sherri Coale](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13897)

### [Dionnah Jackson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14503)

### [Leah Rush](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14237)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have an opening statement by Coach Coale. Then if you
could direct your questions to the players.

_

COACH COALE: I was really proud of our team. I thought we competed, played
extremely hard, played extremely well. Just had a little period there in the
second half where we couldn't get the ball to go in the basket. Went for about
11 possessions there and had trouble scoring. I thought held Texas off, fought
them on the other end, and ultimately you've got to get that ball to go in the
basket. You know, we had more assists, fewer turnovers, did get out-rebounded
by three, but we scored more from the field than they did. Just really proud
of our kids. Got a young squad. Texas is talented and very experienced.
There's a sense of urgency obviously for that huge senior class they have.
Tonight they were just a little bit better.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the player athletes.

_ 

Q. Where did it get away in the second half? Were there any adjustments they
made that were particularly effective?



DIONNAH JACKSON: I thought we played hard the whole second half. Like Coach
Coale said, we didn't make plays, I think in the middle of the second half, we
went on a drought and they kept scoring. You have to go get them; you have to
make a run on yourself.



Q. Leah?



LEAH RUSH: I think the same thing. You can't name it to one possession. A few
plays here and there. They were up by five. Shots aren't falling. We didn't
make plays. They did.



Q. Do you feel like you've done enough to get in the NCAA tournament?



LEAH RUSH: I think we deserve to be there. I think we're a good team and we
can compete with anybody out there? We've done what we can do. It's up to them
now.

DIONNAH JACKSON: I agree with Leah. We'll have to see on Sunday.



Q. Is this a particularly frustrating game? It seemed like there were tough
shots, (inaudible) didn't fall. Does it seem like it got away?



DIONNAH JACKSON: Actually, that's right. They won't give you anything. You
know, you have to take it. We had opportunities. You know, we didn't go
through on those opportunities. They did on theirs. That was the story.



Q. Leah, can you talk about what a handful Tiffany Jackson is on both ends? I
know she was on you for a little bit there in the second half defensively.



LEAH RUSH: Well, she's a great player. I mean, our league knows that, this
team knows that, and Texas knows that. They take advantage of that. We tried
to throw in a few different things, cut down her looks, just tried to take her
out of some of the things we know she's good at. She's a great player, though.
You just have to try to play with her.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thank you for joining us. Good luck this weekend. We'll
take questions for Coach Coale.

_ 

Q. Your thoughts on the post-season and what you think it will shape up to be
for you?



COACH COALE: Well, obviously I feel like we've played an incredibly rigorous
schedule. I think you have to look at that, look at who our losses have been
to. Have we knocked off teams were ranked ahead of us, better than us? Not
necessarily. Have we lost to teams we're not supposed to lose to? Not
necessarily either. You look at quality wins we had over Utah, Louisiana Tech,
Kansas State not very long ago, and the way we've played top teams in our
conference, with the exception of a bad second half in Austin, we've been
right there with every top team in this league. I tell you, Big-12 South is no
piece of cake. I think you look at our strength of schedule, you look at our
RPI, we're there.



Q. Regarding the shooting start you guys got, how important was it to get a
good shooting start?



COACH COALE: I can't hear you.



Q. How important was it to have a good shooting start for your team?



COACH COALE: I want to make sure I got the question. How tough was it to have
a good shoot -- how important was it to have a good shooting start after the
second half we had in Austin?



Q. Yes.



COACH COALE: To tell you the truth, I don't feel like any of our players even
went into this game tonight thinking about anything. The tough part of that
was going out and playing OSU afterward. That's where the residue hangs
around. You make a few shots against them, you know, it goes away, and you get
ready and you play Texas A&M, shoot the ball extremely well. I know it never
crossed my mind tonight, and I would be surprised if it crossed our players'
minds.



Q. Can you talk about how frustrating it is to see those shots not finish, the
shots in close? So many good looks.



COACH COALE: You know, all you can do is all you can do. Nobody's trying to
make those shots harder than those kids. I promise you that. Sometimes maybe
even trying too hard. Maybe sometimes it becomes too important to them. That's
the nature of good kids. I'll take my good kids and I'll take my chances on
Sunday.



Q. Can you talk about Tiffany Jackson and kind of the way she took command out
there.



COACH COALE: Yeah, Tiffany's an incredible athlete, a phenomenal athlete. Jody
has done a great job of getting her to play with greater intensity for longer
periods of time this year. I think she's playing much harder than she did last
year and is more consistent. We tried to change our defenses and keep them off
base as much as we possibly could. It just seemed like every time we tried to
dive down and get her to kick the ball out, it was a trip to the free-throw
line. So it gets a little frustrating there on how do you defend her if that's
going to be the way it goes. You know, I think she wreaks as much havoc on the
other end of the floor as she does on the offensive end. You look at the
number of turnovers had, what was her role in those? I bet she played a part
in about half of 'em. Just quick hands and very aggressive, can be somewhat
intimidating if you allow her to be. I thought she affected us.



Q. Will this Sunday watching the show be different than past?



COACH COALE: Yeah, yeah. When you win the Big-12 tournament, you watch the
show, not much question whether or not your name's going to appear. So it will
be a little different.



Q. You guys are showing up on a couple of brackets, ESPN. Do you feel better
now then maybe you did 24 hours ago? Seems the consensus is that you like you
might have made it nonetheless.



COACH COALE: I like that consensus and I would join in it. I don't know about
the whole 24 hour thing. 24 hours ago I thought we were going to beat Texas,
so I was feeling pretty good. But, you know, again, finding 64 teams better
than us. Are you kidding me? There aren't 64 teams in America better than us.
I know there's all kinds of things that go into that, numbers and formulas and
opinions. I'm all about small conference teams who are really, really good
getting their chance to go. I'm all about all that. All that into
consideration, we're still one of the best 64 teams in the country, and that's
what that tournament is about, getting the best 64 teams together and seeing
who can own March.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you so much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Jamie Carey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16266)

### [Jody Conradt](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13898)

### [Tiffany Jackson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13843)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Congratulate Coach Conradt from Texas, along with players
Tiffany Jackson and Jamie Carey. We'll have opening statements from you,
Coach, then questions for the players.

_

COACH CONRADT: I don't need to tell you it was hard-fought, do I? I told the
team, at this time of year there's no such thing as than ugly win. You just
try to do what you can do to figure out how to advance. As ragged as I thought
our play was, I look at the shooting percentages, and I'll take 53% just about
any game. They were tired in the first half, I think 63, but thankfully it
cooled off a little bit in the second half. I thought we did a decent job
defensively. We were a little flat-footed early. They're hard to guard,
there's no question. You have to really be on your toes. You get locked up on
them, spread out on the floor, and forget the D and help side when there's
penetration. But I thought we picked up our defense. I thought we did a good
job on the boards and we just tried to figure out ways to score with the
lineups that we had on the floor. Obviously, this was a game in which we had
rotations that hadn't been on the floor a lot, particularly first half. Was
just trying to hang close. The fouls in the first half caused us to really
have to adjust. The thought of losing Heather and Annissa made me sick to my
stomach. I was just trying to get through the first half and hope that we
could regroup in the second half.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players.

_ 

Q. Tiffany, had you a big game offensively. It seemed like maybe the key in
the game was your defense on Leah Rush late in the second half. She was having
her way inside. You got onto her, pretty much shut down.



TIFFANY JACKSON: We knew that that Leah was going to be tough coming in. She
works really hard. She's a great player. The second half I just tried to
basically guard her and I let her get the ball. Once Leah get the ball, she's
such a great player, we know pretty much she's going to score. The key to a
player like that is pretty much not letting them catch the ball.



Q. Tiffany, you seemed real emotional there, especially in the second half.
Was there a sense of urgency about this game? Can you talk about taking over
the game offensively?



TIFFANY JACKSON: I think so. I think every game here on out is very urgent.
Coach said, we have a one-game mentality, we have to win. We know if we lose,
we're going home.



Q. Jamie, can you tell us what the strategy changes were that you talked about
at halftime, and why y'all did such a better job defensively in the second
half?



JAMIE CAREY: I think early in the first half, we had a lot of
miscommunication. People would switch, but they wouldn't meet and separate. I
think OU slipped on us a couple times. So we just knew we had to be a little
bit more solid. People on the backside had to show a little bit more help and
make the floor look a little bit smaller.



Q. Jamie, talk about your job defensively on Erin Higgins. Didn't give her a
lot of room to shoot.



JAMIE CAREY: I've been playing Erin for quite a few years now. She has a quick
release. She knows how to use her screens very well. She's tough to defend.
She's a player that you can't forget about for one second. You just have to
stay in her hip on every screen that she goes through. But my teammates did a
really good job of calling screens today, so I knew they were coming and was
able to get through them.



Q. Jamie, how did that game feel to you offensively in terms of flow?



JAMIE CAREY: There wasn't a lot of flow to the game, period, I don't think on
either end. Just one of those rough games that you just have to, you know, get
down and play it. It's a little rough and tumble. You just kind of got to go
with it. So I don't think there was a lot of flow on either end.



Q. Jamie, could you talk about Tiffany's progression in her first two years at
Texas, especially offensively?



JAMIE CAREY: Well, offensively I wouldn't want to guard her if I was a coach.
She's very tough. I think the thing that makes her really special is she's so
competitive and she works really hard. Last year she wouldn't be hitting the
10-footers, 15-footers that she's hitting this year. I mean, that's key.
That's going to make her more difficult to guard. I mean, she's just a huge
attribute to our team. It was fun to see a lot of emotion tonight. I like
that. So, you know, it's a very calming, soothing feeling to know you have her
on our side.



Q. Tiffany, can you talk about how things are different offensively without
Nina? You guys have kind of changed the offense a little bit mid-season to
allow Nina to do some things. How different is it without her?



TIFFANY JACKSON: Nina's a great player. It's hard to have to play without her.
The emphasis that we were talking about is just running the ball. We feel that
Nina is one of the quickest point guards in the ball in the country. Everybody
just has to chip in. Sometimes I have to bring the ball down court. Sometimes
Heather has to bring the ball down court. We just have to come together as a
team and handle the ball.



Q. Tiffany, if you would have wanted to come out of the game, would Coach
Conradt have let you or not? Did you have a contract or what?



TIFFANY JACKSON: Yeah, I think so. She asked me at timeout how I was feeling.
But the timeouts, I was just trying to get my rest and get some water in.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, we're going to let y'all go rest and we'll have Coach
Conradt for just a few more minutes. Questions for Coach Conradt.

_ 

Q. I wonder if it was a surprise to see Oklahoma play zone as they did
tonight.



COACH CONRADT: Not really. You know, we faced a lot of zones. When Heather
goes off the floor, we have seen that quite a bit because Jamie is our only
real perimeter threat when Heather is not there. Daria has been doing a good
job. We've been getting her a little more playing time. Against the zone, you
need to penetrate. It was obvious that we couldn't and didn't and wouldn't and
all of those things. We were pretty stagnant on the offensive end, didn't have
a lot of movement. Even though against a zone it appears that you want to take
the outside shot, it still needed to go inside. We still needed somebody to
penetrate and kick. That was hard for us tonight. Thankfully we've been seeing
some zones. We've worked in practice anticipating that we might. Tiffany is
pretty hard to guard one-on-one. I think that's forced some people to play us
zones, as well. It wasn't a surprise. I thought we were really choppy on the
offensive end and didn't, as you mentioned, have flow. But we got it done.



Q. Oklahoma shot so well in the first half. In the second half they went seven
and a half minutes without a field goal when you took over the game. What
happened during that seven and a half minutes to create such pressure on them?



COACH CONRADT: Well, I think we did pick up our defense. We talked about that.
We weren't very good defensively early. It's the five-person deal. Everybody's
got to take care of their business. Most times we would play for three or four
passes and then we'd have a breakdown in the first half. We gave them some
really good looks. Jamie was the only person that consistently did what she
was supposed to do on defense. She has incredible tenacity and endurance.
That's two games against Oklahoma that she hasn't given up a three to Higgins,
right? She didn't today, did she? And that's just not letting her shoot. We
feel like they will have a hard time beating us if Higgins doesn't get her
points. So that was a key. But in doing that, we gave up some other things. I
thought the second half we really picked up our defense. We started to give
some off-side help. We started to contest on a lot more shots than we did in
the first half. Probably made it a little harder for them to get some of the
looks they got early. I mean, they're a chore to guard. You've got to really
work at it, you have to chase them all over the county. If you relax for a
minute, then they're going to make the extra pass and score.



Q. Would you talk about the switch, put Jackson on Rush there, the second
half.



COACH CONRADT: Heather normally guards Leah. She's done a really good job on
her. But with the foul problems, I couldn't allow that to happen. Tiffany went
to her. Tiffany gave up some looks early in the second half, then we
challenged Tiffany to stop letting her catch the ball. Do your work early and
make it hard for her to get the ball, which is the adjustment Tiffany made on
her own. She was letting her catch the ball. And, yes, Leah can score in lots
of different ways when that happens. I think the thing that Tiffany that was
just pick it up and work harder to keep her from getting her hands on the
ball.



Q. Was Tiffany kind of your designated hitter on defense? You had her out
guarding Dionnah for a while.



COACH CONRADT: Well, we switched a lot of things. She wasn't ever assigned
Dionnah that I remember. But because they set so many screens, that's one of
the things we can do on defense, because we can screen like players. The only
person that wasn't going to be involved in a switch was Jamie, and everybody
else was instructed to switch. We had Kala on Rush at times. If you looked,
you'd see everybody guard everyone on their team because their screens are
hard to defend and we just started to switch a lot of things.



Q. Given what you were talking about about picking it up on defense, the fact
that they went the seven minutes plus without scoring, do you think you wore
them down also?



COACH CONRADT: Well, we're not exactly really fresh right now either. That was
a hard ballgame. We had to run lots of steps. But typically when you're
fatigued, you get front iron or you shoot short. They did miss a lot of shots
in the second half that they had made probably in the first. That's one of the
reasons you play pressure defense. You hope that it gives you an advantage as
you wear your opponent down and make it difficult for them to score.



Q. Is Nina available in a crisis situation? Is she available for the next
game? Where is she, how is very affecting your offense?



COACH CONRADT: She wants to play, wanted to play today. I have my doubts
whether she could have been effective. I think you will understand if I tell
you that I'm not taking any chances. She will be able to play eventually. It
might be tomorrow, it might be the next day, it might not be till next week.
But I don't see any reason to push her out there right now. It's sore; it's
tender. I would suspect we need to let that settle down a little bit before we
push her. I don't think there's any question about what impact it has when we
don't have her. Do we have another penetrator? No. Do we have anybody that can
push the ball? No. Do we have anybody that can spell Jamie? No. Do we have
anybody that really has the kind of quickness to guard somebody else's
opposing guard? No. There's some holes to be filled. I think Coco stepped up,
did the things we needed her to do. I thought Erneisha Bailey gave us a few
good minutes. If she would play like that all the time, we'd see her really
emerge as a really good player. But as most freshmen, there's some
inconsistency there. I don't know who's going to have to play the next game.
Tamra Cobbins may have to play if Nina doesn't. It's just a scramble at this
point.



Q. Is it hard not to take Tiffany for granted? Do you kind of assess her
progression over two years?



COACH CONRADT: I've been so fortunate to have several special players. Tiffany
is there. What you want -- I mean, Tiffany is so competitive, and I don't
think anybody really can understand how hard she plays and what her work ethic
is like unless you come to practice, because she plays just like that in
practice every time she takes the floor. What impressed me the most about
Tiffany is the progress she made over the summer. She was embarrassed because
in our final loss last year, LSU refused to guard her at the free-throw line.
Being competitive, she shot it anyway. I think she left that game knowing she
was going to add that to her repertoire. She has a lot of pride. I didn't see
her in the gym practicing it, but I knew the moment we came back to the floor
in the fall that she had practiced it. I think that says volumes about the
kind of player she is, how competitive she is, and what's her limitations.
It's up there. The other thing about Tiffany, she came not saying, "I don't
want to play the five, I don't want to get down in a block, I don't want to be
just down there." So I started to start trying to figure out what I could call
that position and hoped that we would not have to limit her to playing inside
as much as we do. But I think she's seen that our team needs her there, and I
think she has figured out she can be effective there. She's shown a very
unselfish attitude to do what her team needs. The other area where she's
improved tremendously is she's recognizing double teams and giving up the ball
and working again to get it back. In the beginning, okay, you're going to
guard me with two. I can still score. All right, you're going to guard me with
three. I'll still try to score. And sometimes she did. But there were a lot of
times where she didn't. We talked about patience, just giving up the ball,
waiting till you get another opportunity.



Q. Did you like seeing Tiffany take those shots today from about the free-
throw line, those little jumpers, not try to go in and create something like
she normally would?



COACH CONRADT: Well, that's where she's added something to her game. That's
been something she's done all year. It just makes her harder to guard. I think
she still sees it as a challenge and gets a little irritated that they don't
come out and guard her there. But she's got the ultimate answer now when she
can knock those down.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you so much.

_

COACH CONRADT: Thank you.



End of FastScriptsÃ¢ï¿½Â¦.

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [LaToya Bond](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13853)

### [Christelle
N'Garsanet](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13908)

### [Cindy Stein](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14283)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We have Coach Stein with us and Missouri players LaToya Bond
and Christelle N'Garsanet. Coach, we'll have you give us an opening statement,
then we'll have questions for the players.

_

COACH STEIN: I'd just say that I think you guys all witnessed it. I think
Baylor's a handful. I think they're tough to beat. You have to have a perfect
execution of your game plan in order to stop them. They're running on all
burners today. They were very tough to stop.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players.

_ 

Q. LaToya, could you talk about how tough their defense can be?



LaTOYA BOND: That's kind of how every Big-12 team is. We faced that a lot this
year with the pressure on the on ball with the point bringing it up, a lot of
denial on the wings, trapping on the post. I mean, it's tough. But we just got
to get used to it and work through it.



Q. Christelle, you guys are going to be coming back next year. Can you talk
about what your expectations are going to be for Missouri? Put the season into
perspective a bit.



CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET: We just going to try to work hard during the pre-
season, start working hard right now until the next season. I hope everything
is going to be okay. We're going to get better and better.



Q. Christelle, Coach Stein mentioned Baylor can be a handful. Can you talk
about their inside players, particularly Blackmon and Young, how dither to
face inside there?



CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET: They're really good post players. Really you have to
keep working all the time. You can't take a rest or take a day off. But
they're really good post player and very hard to defend. You just have to keep
working hard.



Q. LaToya, I'll ask you about a specific play again. Hopefully you remember
this. The very first basket of the game that you had, you seemed pretty
excited about that one. It was a put-back, then you got fouled. Can you talk
about that at all at the beginning of the game how you guys started off?



LaTOYA BOND: We just came out with a lot of energy. Everybody was crashing the
boards. The ball just happened to fall my way and I put it back up and got
fouled. That's a great way to start the game, with a 3-point play.



Q. LaToya, I wonder if you would talk about that stretch during which Baylor
(inaudible) went up.



LaTOYA BOND: I think we just weren't executing right on offense, and we
weren't pacing it. We were rushing shots. It just didn't seem like nobody
wanted the ball, like we were trying to get rid of it too fast. I mean, that
causes a lot of problems for us defensively 'cause we have trouble getting
back in transition. So, I mean, we just needed to slow the ball up and take
better care of the ball.



Q. LaToya and Christelle, could you talk about the time when you, right after
the half, you got within 10 of them, what do you think motivated you or helped
you to come out strong like that?



LaTOYA BOND: I guess we just -- we knew that we weren't like out of the game
completely. I mean, we just had to keep fighting and keep chipping away at the
lead.

CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET: It was the same thing. Just like we just felt that we
can come back and just play hard and it's going to be okay.



Q. LaToya, this has been a frustrating season for you guys in a lot of ways.
What have you learned from this season and what can you apply to make next
season a little better?



LaTOYA BOND: I guess basically just keeping your poise out there on the court
when things aren't going right and not getting such bad attitudes, whatever,
get frustrated so easily. That was a lot of problems we had this year, was
getting frustrated and stuff with a lot of pressure and when things weren't
going right. I mean, we just got to learn from that next year that we got to
be tough and be mentally and physically stronger than that.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thank you and good luck in the off-season. We'll keep
coach for just a few more minutes. Questions for Coach Stein.

_ 

Q. Is it hard to face Baylor when you went know which other player is going to
be the one to step up that day?



COACH STEIN: Well, you know, Baylor's depth I don't think sometimes gets
enough credit. I think they're starting five is extremely good, but then when
you have somebody like Emily Neiman coming off the bench, she may not have had
an outstanding game today, but at the same time she's a presence out there in
doing something. But then you've got LaToya Wyatt coming in and doing some
things. Then you've got Scott playing well. You know, it's tough, because
you're already worried about the two big kids. But that's why they only have
three losses on the year, too. You know, a lot of credit goes to them
obviously.



Q. Could you talk about, LaToya mentioned early in the season your team might
not have reacted well in pressure situations, but the last part of the season
how well they've changed, the growth they've made.



COACH STEIN: Well, we have made a lot of growth. LaToya spoke about that. It's
just the fact with such a young team, playing in such a tough conference,
sometimes your self-esteem sometimes comes and goes with your shot, and that
can't happen. It's teaching them all the other things about defense and
rebounding and taking care of the ball. Sometimes that's tough when you're
playing against the top teams in the country. But I'm very proud of this team
and how they have been able to really focus on just getting better as a team,
giving it everything they had. I thought tonight or today that we wanted it
almost too bad early. We were overrunning stuff, not just grabbing the loose
ball that's right in front of us, and sometimes learning that type of poise
just takes a little bit of time. And I think we're getting closer to where we
need to be.



Q. I wonder if you'd address that stretch of the first half when Baylor
changed the momentum of the game.



COACH STEIN: I think LaToya hit it. We were rushing everything. One, they make
you do that. Baylor has very good defensive pressure and they make you rush.
We wanted the ball so bad, we were just running 10 feet beyond or screen,
getting a little out of sync. That's where we need to be a little bit more
patient and confident to set our offense up. You don't want to get in a
running game with them.



Q. Maybe discuss the pressure they put on you defensively. Seemed like every
position passed the ball so well.



COACH STEIN: Yeah, you know, when you play Baylor, it's a really physical
game, so it's not just the fact that you're having to work hard to get open,
it's also the physicalness of getting bumped off your cuts, things like that,
bumped around a screen. You know, just the poise that it takes -- you know,
sometimes your athleticism can help get you open, about you've still got to be
strong enough to handle the bumps and staying on balance. Sometimes it just
starts mounting up over time. Sometimes you can hang with them. But because of
their depth, sometimes it's hard to do that when you don't have the depth to
compete like that.



Q. Y'all did get it back to 10 there in the second half. At that point, the
way y'all had worked to get it back, did you feel like you were kind of back
in the game, had a chance right there?



COACH STEIN: We did feel like we had a chance. That's kind of what we were
focused on, just kind of going in five-point bursts, trying to get five points
back here, back to five, just kind of breaking it down by our timeouts. But,
you know, it's tough against them. I mean, they stepped it up another level.
We almost relaxed too much. We got there. And that's one of the problems we've
had, is sometimes our kids relax instead of still taking their next step up,
because good teams are going to take it to the next level. Like I said, Baylor
does that.



Q. If you could continue on that. If I remember the sequence of plays right,
you're within 10, then the point guard turns it over trying to pass inside. Is
that the next step your team has to take, where you have leadership on court
to know when you have to make that next big play?



COACH STEIN: Sure. You know, sometimes when we get in situations like that,
what you'll see from our team is we go for the quick hit. We want to get it
right now. That's something, our patience kind of goes along with our
confidence, just kids being in that kind of pressure situation and knowing how
to handle the pressure. But we're going for that quick kill, and you've got to
have a little bit more patience and work them a little bit more.



Q. They say in the Big-12 everybody knows everything about everybody. Do you
have enough of a scouting report to know what LaToya Wyatt could do or would
do? Are there so many other things you're worried about, you don't get that
far down?



COACH STEIN: I would say that you know about Wyatt, but she's not your focus.
I tell you really at this point the only thing you're not going to know going
into a game is what the other coach is going to wear, especially Kim
(laughter).



Q. Can you talk about your decision to leave LaToya in the game with four
fouls.



COACH STEIN: Well, we were down by 14. We're a much better team with LaToya
out there. LaToya provides a lot of spark and everything. She does from a
defensive standpoint to an offensive standpoint. She was kind of the one
finding the wiggle room offensively. I didn't want to hit a dry spell. And
Blair has been doing a good job coming in, but at the same time she hasn't
been doing anything offensively. As we've always mentioned, against a team
like Baylor, you've got to be able to score with them because they're going to
put up a lot of numbers. You've got to be able to score.



Q. Could you sort of give your assessment on Baylor's potential as a Final
Four team. How would you rate them with the other ones that have gone to the
Final Four?



COACH STEIN: I think Baylor has a great chance of being in the Final Four. I
know I've watched North Carolina play Duke. I think Baylor is right up there.
Everyone keeps talking about North Carolina being able to possibly get to the
Final Four. You know, I don't want to jinx them because I think they have
incredible talent and I think they have the depth. They've got the great
inside-outside combination. Obviously, you know, we're going to be cheering
anybody from the Big-12 on to get to that Final Four.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, congratulations on a hard-fought year.

_

COACH STEIN: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 8, 2005

  

### [Erica Hallman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14233)

### [Bonnie Henrickson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13895)

### [Crystal Kemp](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13846)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Coach Henrickson and the Kansas players. Coach,
we'll get a quick opening statement from you.

_

COACH HENRICKSON: Credit to Missouri for sustaining our run in the middle
minutes of the second half, for being aggressive off the dribble, making some
layups in that stretch where we struggled to score. Certainly we're
disappointed with our offensive execution and performance in the second half.
But as I told this group in the locker room, as much as this hurts, as much as
it stings, in time, and it needs to hurt for a while as competitive as this
group is, we can't let it overshadow our growth this year, how proud we are as
a staff. The growth we've had this year isn't enough, obviously, because we're
not post-season. We don't have a winning record. But it's growth that was
important for us this year. We understand as a group we need the same amount
of growth next year for those kids that are returning. The two to my left, at
12:01 tonight, this team is theirs, because they're seniors.

_

THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for our players.

_ 

Q. Crystal, the last six and a half minutes you were only able to score once.
What do you think happened there?



CRYSTAL KEMP: I think Missouri picked up their defensive pressure. I think we
were starting to rush a few things and trying to create things and not run our
offense, what was working for us in the beginning.



Q. Erica, I wonder if you could talk about that, too, that stretch. Did you
feel the game just got away from you there a little bit?



ERICA HALLMAN: Yeah, I thought it got away from us. We got some open looks,
but we didn't knock it down. We just weren't as efficient as we were in the
first half in the second half, particularly down the stretch, the last six
minutes or so. But you've got to give them credit. They came out and played
hard for the whole game. They got the win.



Q. Crystal, I think you had a career high today. Can you talk about that?



CRYSTAL KEMP: Yeah, I did. But we fell short of a victory, and I would rather
have, you know, two points and a win than 35 and a loss.

COACH HENRICKSON: We could have used 35, Crystal.



Q. If both of you could talk about what Coach Henrickson just said. You'll
both be seniors. What did you learn this season, how you're looking forward to
next year?



CRYSTAL KEMP: I think it's definitely a plus for us, especially how we've
grown throughout the year, the fact that Erica and I and Kaylee are going to
be seniors. I mean, it's just extra momentum going into next year. We already
have a year under our belt under Coach Henrickson. The fact that we're going
to be seniors I think is a plus because we know what to expect and we know how
to lead the team now. We've learned from the seniors that are leaving us now
also.

ERICA HALLMAN: I feel like we're very fortunate to be seniors. We're losing
two great players in Aquanita and Blair. We're going to miss them a big deal.
We just got to start from today and be better in the off-season. When our
freshmen come in, we got to get them on the same page and just keep listening
to Coach because we've been successful this season, and we will be more
successful next season.



Q. Erica, in the late going, you had several close-in shots that just didn't
go in. How frustrated were you by those that didn't go in?



ERICA HALLMAN: Very frustrated, of course. If I could have made a couple of
those shots, we probably could have won the game. But it didn't come down to
those last shots. We got killed on the offensive glass. We just didn't execute
down the stretch. I would have loved for them to go in, but they didn't. It's
just one of those things.



Q. Crystal, late in that first half, right-handed layup, they came down and
hit the layup, was that the momentum switcher having them going into the lead
in the half?



CRYSTAL KEMP: I would say so. It wasn't only that, it was a number of things.
When they were at the free-throw line, they probably got elevendy-five
offensive rebounds at once. That was definitely disappointing for me. I wish I
could have made the shot. One of those things I can't change. I wish I could.



Q. Crystal, Coach Henrickson was talking about the growth this team made this
year. Can you touch on that, where you are now, as opposed to maybe where you
were in October?



CRYSTAL KEMP: I think we've progressed a lot, especially since we've been in
games we weren't expecting to be in, games that we won that we weren't
expecting to. We were expected to finish 11 in the Big-12, so I think we did
great as far as finishing eighth. For the most part we have grown a lot and we
have more to grow on. The fact that I have another year with Coach is
definitely a plus for me.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thanks for being with us. We'll continue with questions
for Coach Henrickson.

_ 

Q. You've seen your team blow hot and cold offensively the whole season. Where
does this rank? You made 15 of your first 25, then missed 13 of your last 14.



COACH HENRICKSON: We shoot 51% the first half, come back and answer with 25%
in the second half. It's a combination of a few -- little bit of shot
selection at times. As much as probably how we took some of the shots, getting
off balance, not getting on balance. Down the stretch, huddling, trying to
say, "Listen, we're going to look at Crystal and Erica first." You don't want
to tell the other three they can't take a shot because they got to remain
aggressive. You can't have them be passive. Give Missouri credit, they didn't
give us high-percentage looks. We don't execute out of a timeout one time we
diagramed. We don't execute there, we don't help ourselves in that possession.
It wasn't just one possession. We just didn't get the right people in the
spots they would make it. Not a lot of bad shots. If you look down the
stretch, the last six minutes, who got shots, it's a little disappointing. On
the defensive end, we give up layups down the middle, don't defend penetration
very well. I thought we did a much better job with N'Garsanet, Kodak All-
American in the first half, did a much better job in the second half. The zone
helped us a little bit. Then I thought we became passive, and they started to
hit some uncontested shots. I liked our aggressiveness, but we just gave up
layups. Can't make people shoot layups in this league and win.



Q. Can you talk about the rebounding.



COACH HENRICKSON: I think the most telling statistic as far as intensity I
thought, this time of the year, is we give up 11 offensive rebounds in the
first half. We hold them to 10 in both games, 20 total. Might have been three
or four, one pokes off the free-throw line, a couple loose balls. We talked
about matching their intensity at some point in the second half, getting them
to match ours. We just never got over the hump. We made a little bit of a run
when we created some offense from our defense, when Aqua gets the deflection
and the run-out. But, yeah, that was disappointing certainly. Off the free-
throw line quite a bit, with N'Garsanet struggling at the line, how many of
those they scored off or got actual possession.



Q. Coach, the difficulty of being undersized all year, did you feel like that
was important tonight?



COACH HENRICKSON: We've been through that all year and we haven't really made
that as an excuse. We've said from the beginning of the year, it's not how big
you are, it's how big you play. I didn't think we played very big today. We
didn't box out. We've said all year we can't make you bigger overnight and
faster overnight, but we can be disciplined and fundamental about boxing out
and just being better as far as a pursuit there. I just didn't think we did.
Just disappointing couple loose balls. They're all over the floor. We might
have one on the floor. For us right now, we've got to win those little things.
We call those special situations. Every loose ball's got to be ours. Compete
on the baseline out of bounds, score more than they do, little things. Not
enough of those. Not that we didn't at all, but just not enough to win.



Q. Could you evaluate your season. Is this where you hope to be?



COACH HENRICKSON: I think we've made progress. We went through a stretch down
at the end where we felt like we identified a couple wins, there's a chance
for us to be in the NIT. For us to be able to say those words and get a phone
call for them. Not long ago, NIT stood for not in the tournament. We had a big
party in Lawrence if we made it in the NIT. I think there's growth there.
We've had a couple disappointing performances certainly. But I think as a
staff, myself personally, I'm proud of the kids for staying off the
rollercoaster as much we can, as much as we did. I said to them afterwards, I
think one of the most rewarding things right now is their self-esteem and
self-confidence.



Q. With how well Crystal and Erica played tonight, can you talk about how
excited you are for next season?



COACH HENRICKSON: I'm excited. I told them, they're seniors. The juniors are
seniors, the sophomores are juniors, the freshmen are sophomores. They've got
to grab those freshmen this summer and get it right. As much growth as we had,
we can be proud of that, but we can't -- we've had some success certainly. We
can't become complacent now because we're 12 and whatever we are. We want to
be able to pat them on the back and love them to death, but also kick them in
the pants and say, "We've got to get better." Crystal has got to get better.
Erica has got to get better. I think these two have been solid all year. We
just have got to be able to get some people around them that can get some
shots. They've got five people that can score. If Taylor doesn't hit one,
we've got -- aqua goes 4 for 10. We have too many 0-fors in the people around
them. This league is too good. They can take two people away, but individually
they can get better and as a group we will get better. They'll be good
leaders. They've been good all year.



Q. Crystal only got two shot attempts in the last seven minutes.



COACH HENRICKSON: It wasn't by design, I promise you.



Q. Did you sense she was more well-covered?



COACH HENRICKSON: I thought they doubled. They doubled a couple plays we ran.
Then she got herself a little too deep to get a shot on a couple catches. Now
all of a sudden looks like she's going to lead us in assists. She had some
touches she didn't shoot because of where she was on the floor. Then we got
not aggressive enough that we end up with some perimeter shots, free-throw
line extended, all over the rim, can't get it to drop. But by design, we were
obviously running things, here are the four things, we know we can get Crystal
and Erica a shot. Too many of those -- they sagged and doubled and brought
some help. Some other kids got some shots. Those kids are on Division I full
scholarships. They can make those shots; they just didn't today.



Q. Can you talk about the decision-making at the end of the game? 19 seconds
left. You're down by three.



COACH HENRICKSON: Two for one because you don't make that three, then they
score at the free-throw line, you're back to two possessions. We're going to
try to go quick. We've actually been talking about that all week. If you watch
Duke men at all, Krzyzewski will do it with eight seconds. As I said, we're
still going to go two for one foul. We're going to run all of our special
situations. If we need a three, we can get a three with six, five or four
seconds. We were going to try to be aggressive. You have to set it up, unless
you're going to penetrate and kick, to set that up. You might eat 12 seconds
to run the play. All of a sudden you're down three. Savant is probably going
to be at the free-throw line again shooting 92%. Now you've got a two-
possession game with six seconds. We'll try to score two. Unfortunately, Erica
misses the one layup. That's what it was. That's too much time to end up. If
you're going to eat that much time to get a three, try to get two possessions
back if you miss. And they were making free-throws.



Q. You played Blair 16 minutes in the second half. Was that size?



COACH HENRICKSON: Kaylee struggled from the floor. Kaylee is not going to
bring anything offensively. Riddle I thought hurt is offensively in the first
half. Kaylee gives up a lot of size there. Blair in the first game at our
place defended Riddle very, very well. We went no switch with Blair, let her
stay on Riddle. She gets the offensively floor, two deflections, pressures the
ball pretty well. She had some success in the first game. Taylor wasn't going
to bring anything offensively, at least we felt like we had a better defender,
we had more size on Riddle.



Q. Can you talk about at times Bond can really do a lot out there.



COACH HENRICKSON: Very good off the dribble, off a hand-off. She gets the
layup, we don't bring help. Was just aggressive. She finished tell at the rim,
where at times we didn't finish well. She makes looks that Erica struggled
with down the stretch. Erica's might have been a little more contested because
they brought help earlier. She's a kid who is, again, aggressive and
confident, played it -- played strong all the way to the finish.



Q. Can you talk about Taylor's off-season development, what you're looking for
from her?



COACH HENRICKSON: That shot will look better, I promise you. It already looks
better, it will look better. As far as her ability, offensive rebound,
defensively, for her to be able to hit that high-post jumper or the pull-up
jumper when Crystal is doubled, that's important for us. We don't have that
right now. It's just not consistent. She's capable of it. We believe she is.
Her shot has gotten better. But her growth from giving us some high-post
offense is what we need from her. She still has to rebound and defend. I think
the more confident we get her, penetrate from the high post, from the free-
throw line, pass it high/low, catch and shoot from there. It will give Crystal
a little more room inside.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thanks for your time. Congrats on good progress.

_

COACH HENRICKSON: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 8, 2005

  

### [Bill Fennelly](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13850)

### [Lyndsey Medders](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15520)

### [Anne O'Neil](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14502)

### [Katie Robinette](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16311)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have an opening statement from Coach Fennelly, then throw
it open for questions. From Iowa State we have Anne O'Neil, Katie Robinette,
and Lyndsey Medders who hit the three. Coach, go ahead.

_

COACH FENNELLY: I want to thank our honorary coach Jan Kramer. We're down
seven with a minute to go, she said, "I'll take it from here." Thank you for
that. I'm still shaking. I'm sorry. I want -- I'm very proud of how our kids
played the game. This is a nerve-racking March. I'm happy for our kids because
we get to play. I feel very sad for Coach Barry. I'm really excited for my
kids, but I didn't want to be involved in her last game, especially that way.
She totally out-coached me today, without question. Her team was better
prepared, played better, played harder. I love my team. I'm glad we get to
keep playing. I feel bad that it happened that way for her. She's an amazing
person. She gave me one of the greatest compliments I ever had in my life.
Before the game she said, "Bill, you made me a better coach." For somebody
that is going to be in the Hall of Fame, has done that much for this
University, this league, to say that to me, doesn't get much better than that.
Sorry. Thank you.

_

THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach. Questions for our player.

_ 

Q. Anne and Lyndsey, talk about the last sequence, getting the ball down
court, getting the shot.



LYNDSEY MEDDERS: I think after our initial trap when we saw the ball way up
the floor, I think it was Nedovic, who was going up for the layup and I saw
Katie going up getting the rebound I looked up at the clock, there was still
some time left when we got the rebound and got the outlet to run. Looked up,
there was probably with three seconds left. I had a girl still kind of
guarding me. I was ready to pull up. I saw Lyndsey streaking down the side,
left wing. I knew she was going to pull up for a three. I just got it to her
in time. I think she probably knew how much time was left on the clock. Once
she hit it, it was amazing. I still don't know how we won the game.

ANNE O'NEIL: Probably the most team-oriented play we had all game. Katie
Robinette hustles back and gets a rebound that probably everybody in the gym
thought it was going in, gets it to Megan. She gets it up to Anne O'Neil, Anne
who has hit game winner after game winner through her career. Still ends up
getting the ball to the person who played not too well for 39 minutes and 58
seconds until those last two. So you know, that's just credit to everybody on
the team making a huge play. They got me the ball right where I needed it. It
went in finally.



Q. Anne, do you guys practice that last six seconds by not taking a timeout,
did you do that in practice to where you don't take a timeout in that type of
situation?



ANNE O'NEIL: It's never looked as perfectly as that play and ended up like
that. I think everybody just realized how much time we still had and we still
had a chance to win the game. It was a very unselfish, self-less plays all the
way down to the court, getting to play to me. Katie hustling back, seeing
Medders down the court, I knew she would be able to hit it. If we were going
to go for broke, we knew we were going to throw up a three. She made it. It
was just euphoria on the court. I can't believe it. We practice game
situations all the time with pressing, being down one or two, usually not down
seven with 50 seconds left. To come back, we're really proud of each other and
just so excited to be able to play another day.



Q. Katie, talk about that play from your perspective. Was all you could -- did
you think about fouling her or just trying to go for the block?



KATIE ROBINETTE: No. I could tell she didn't know for sure if she was supposed
to shoot or not. She was a little hesitant. I thought she'd maybe miss it. I
grabbed the rebound. I looked for Anne. She's kind of our clutch player. When
finally we did get the ball to Anne, she got the ball to Medders, she hit the
ball, it was huge. I didn't know if she was going to make it or not because
she hadn't been playing very well (laughter). I was thinking rebound honestly.

LYNDSEY MEDDERS: See how many times she touches the ball tomorrow (laughter).

KATIE ROBINETTE: Like Anne said, we're just happy to be here for tomorrow.



Q. Anne and both Lyndsey talked about, you did the same thing last year
against Texas Tech. Is this even better than that because of the situation,
because of being in a tournament like this?



ANNE O'NEIL: This one was so huge. To be in Kansas City, it's win or go home.
We all passed for a long week. We would have been really sad to be riding back
on the bus tonight. Yeah, I just think, you know, the way we came back
throughout the last couple minutes, being down most of the second half, was
just so huge. Just to be able to finish it that with that kind of play, that's
kind of epitome of our team season fighting and to play together and we hope
to continue to do that.



Q. Lyndsey, you guys had not shot very well for the whole game. You said you
didn't feel like you played that well until the end. You had a couple threes.
Was there any confidence thing for you at the end? How did you feel?



LYNDSEY MEDDERS: I didn't want to be riding home on a bus tonight, looking
back and saying, "Well, I could have done this, I could have done that." You
know, those are the kind of games you want to play in. That's the reason why
you wake up in the morning and shoot and why you run and you do pre-season and
you get yelled and screamed at every day. You do this. Those are the kinds of
moments you want to be in. Yeah, I played horrible the entire game. There's no
question about that. You know, to be honest, as far as looking at that last
shot, I would have never had that opportunity had these two and everybody else
not played well. So everybody's going to try and focus on me making finally a
shot all game when we were in it because everybody else, Coach keeping us in
the game and whatnot. Don't give me too much credit. All I did was make a
three.



Q. (No microphone).



ANNE O'NEIL: Usually, it's an out-of-bounds situation, the ones that we
practiced. That's just I think basketball instinct. Everyone was looking for
an open player, knew how much time was on the clock. That gives a lot of
credit to our coaching staff for putting up the most situations to be smart at
the end of the game. At the same time, the whole last two minutes of the game,
you know, we were working towards final play. Luckily it happened. Everybody
was ready to do their part.



Q. Up until then, you'd beaten Colorado twice, obviously they're playing with
a lot of emotion. Why is it such a struggle this time?



KATIE ROBINETTE: I don't know. I think we got the tournament jitters out.
Hopefully we'll be ready to go tomorrow. I think Colorado was really ready to
play, like Coach said. Yeah, they were playing with a lot of emotion and
everything, but I think we don't have any reason to be lacking emotion. This
is huge. It's a huge week. We've practiced. We've conditioned. We've practiced
all year. We've been looking forward to it and we didn't want to go home.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thanks a lot. We'll keep coach for just a few more
minutes. Questions for Coach Fennelly.

_ 

Q. Coach, Ceal had talked about trying to stop you guys in your transition
game with the three. Did they do about as good a job today keeping their
place?



COACH FENNELLY: They did a great job of stopping our transition. You know, we
make a lot of open shots in transition. When we played them at our place, we
had a lot of open looks at the basket. Again, I think you have to give credit
to their kids and to their coaching staff to coach as hard as they did to the
bitter end. We had a hard time getting looks at the basket, we really did. Our
spacing wasn't very good, and they took advantage of that, especially Johns-
Richardson with some steals. It was really hard for us. We didn't get many
open looks tonight. The ones we did get, we didn't convert. You know, we
really didn't get -- the two best looks we got were probably the two that
Lyndsey Medders hit. We didn't get many after that. That's good team defense.
It's attention to detail on their end. They dictated the tempo of the game at
both ends of the court. It was a struggle to score. Luckily we got some inside
points from Katie, which made a big difference, I think. I thought their
transition defense was about as good as I've seen. The K State game at K State
was very similar. They just took us totally out of our transition. That's a
big part of how we play and we didn't get it done this afternoon.



Q. (No microphone.)



COACH FENNELLY: I said, Get your head up, it's not your fault. I mean,
basketball is a team game. I know she's crying, she feels bad. I mean, who
knows. She makes that shot, Medders hits a three, we're still with an
overtime, we might have beat them anyway. She hit a couple huge shots, you
know, the three from the corner might have almost broke our back. I just told
her, "Get your head up, it's not your fault." You feel bad for a kid to be in
those situations. You know, that's not right. I'm sure she didn't listen to
what I said. I've seen too many kids go through those emotions. It's just bad
to see it happen.



Q. You're down 9 about 8:20 left. You call a timeout. What did you say?
There's a 10-2 run after that.



COACH FENNELLY: I was telling them the same thing we've been telling them all
year, as far as, You have 40 minutes to play or go home. Then it was 20, it
was 15, it was 8. For the first time in a long time, this team had that kind
of glazed look in their eye. I think they were really for the first time
feeling little jitters. There were a lot of people that really support this
team. I don't think they wanted to go home. Every time we did one or two good
things, we did one or two bad. We just could not get any flow whatsoever. And
I think you have to credit Colorado with that. You know, there wasn't any
hollering and screaming. You just got to keep fighting and playing. Coaches
talk about life lessons all the time. That's what I told them, This is the way
your life's going to be. There's going to be good days and there's going to be
bad days. When it's a bad day, you either quit, or fight back and make
something good out of it. Go to the bitter end. I mean 2/10ths of a second. We
always talk about finishing. Teams can start seasons, teams can play through
the middle. You got to have something special to finish something. That's what
we've been trying to get our kids to do. Obviously that's not our team. I
mean, we're not a team that presses people and fields the ball and makes
layups. It was out of character in the way we did it but not out of character
in the people that did it. It went our way, but it's one of those things that
happens in March.



Q. Since you've been here, have you had a comeback like this in your tenure
here?



COACH FENNELLY: No. The closest thing was I think we had a game with Missouri,
we were down, I think my second year at Iowa State. Tara Gunderson hit a
three-point shot to tie the game. I think we were down six with 30 seconds to
go. To be honest with you, I don't know what I'm even saying right now to be
honest with you. You got to do for me what Erin does. She covers for me when
I'm nonsense. Make me sound good in the paper, please. I'd appreciate that.
Right now I can't think of a time when that's happened to us, where we've come
back that way and found a way to win a game, especially in this setting. I
think, at UNLV, we made some great plays to come back. But not like this.



Q. You stuck with Lyndsey. There are times when you pulled her out when she's
played that poorly in the past. Talk about sticking with her, letting her
learn through this, getting rewarded for that.



COACH FENNELLY: You know, there was a conscious decision on the bench. The
coaches talked about it. She's got to learn to play through this. Her and Ron
are going to be the leaders of this team next year. This is an environment you
have to learn. And she got -- she made a couple plays at the end. I'm not big
on "You learn from losing." People who say that lose a lot. She learned a
great lesson tonight, she made a couple big plays at the end. She's smart
enough to know she didn't play very well. She better play a lot better
tomorrow. But she loves the seniors as much as any underclassman I've ever
been around. And I think, you know, we just felt like she had to be involved
in the game. We needed ball-handling. There was not really much of a situation
where we really thought about taking her out. We rested her one time. I
thought about resting Anne, and Anne basically looked at me and said, "If you
take me out," I won't repeat what she said. So Anne had to go the whole time.



Q. Do you have an initial thought on matching up against Texas Tech again
tomorrow?



COACH FENNELLY: Yeah, you know, everybody's all excited. We're walking off the
court, maybe as wild a finish as I've ever been a part of. I'm not even out of
the tunnel and somebody said, "Hey, guess what, you get to play Tech
tomorrow." You know, I mean, you get in the quarterfinals of a conference
tournament and you're going to play a ranked team. I don't know if there's
been a tournament in this country where two teams in the Top 20 have to play
in the quarterfinals. They're a great team. They just mauled us at their
place. I think they're -- I'd like to think they're going to be really scared
after our performance, really nervous (laughter). I'm just glad we get to play
them. Hopefully we play them better than we played them the first time.
They're an outstanding team. We'll have to do a few things different. Fatigue
won't be a factor. That's the next question obviously. They're kids. If you
can't get ready to play tomorrow, then we'll rest them tonight. They'll
celebrate with each other, smile a lot. We'll come back, play tomorrow. We got
to play a lot better, no question, but we will play better tomorrow.



Q. (No microphone.)



COACH FENNELLY: The first thing I was thinking is she is going to make that
layup, what we were going to do after that. When she missed it, there was
never, never one moment we were going to call a timeout. Wasn't going to
happen. They had been so prepared all game. I think in a lot of those
situations, the open-court situation, you got to rely on your players. We
practiced the six-second play almost every day in practice, three seconds,
whatever. So, no, Anne O'Neil had her hands on the ball and I'll live with
that. She made the decision to pass it, which turned out to be a great
decision. It was just get it up the court and try and get a shot, whatever you
can get. But we were not going to call timeout.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks again. Congratulations.

_

COACH FENNELLY: Thanks, everyone. Appreciate your time.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 8, 2005

  

### [Taleesha Conder](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16313)

### [Julie Goodenough](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16314)

### [Nina Stones](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14501)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We welcome coach Julie Goodenough, and Nina Stone and Taleesha
Conder. Coach, we'll have you give a quick opening statement.

_

COACH GOODENOUGH: We wish we still had some games left this season. But
applaud Nebraska's efforts and wish them the best of luck tomorrow.

_

THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players.

_ 

Q. Nina, Nebraska was talking about how they felt like they played you guys
differently defensively. That was a big difference. Can you address that?



NINA STONE: Yes, I think they were a little bit more aggressive. They was out
in the passing lanes a lot more, you know. They did a lot of switching in the
game. Last time we played them, they didn't do a lot of switching, but they
did hedge pretty big. That's what we worked on in practice and everything. I'd
just say that they was a lot more aggressive than what we played them last
time.



Q. Nina, you guys didn't shoot real well in the first half, but you were tied,
come out even colder in the second half. Can you talk what happened the first
10 minutes of the second half?



NINA STONE: In the second half, our shots just wasn't falling. I know in the
first half, I mean, we didn't shoot it that well, but our defense intensity
was very good. In the second half, Nebraska came out pretty strong. Then when
we tried to come back and score, the ball just wouldn't go in the hole, I
guess. But we just got (inaudible), so.



Q. Nina, can you talk about the progress that you feel like y'all made as a
team this year even though the wins may not show it?



NINA STONE: The program's coming along very well. Yeah, I mean, the record
doesn't show. 7-21 doesn't really show it. As you guys know, the past couple
of months, nobody wanted to play us. I mean, we hung in there with K State at
K State. Texas Tech at Texas Tech. We played Baylor right down to the buzzer.
Played Nebraska right down to the buzzer beater. This program's coming along
very well under Julie Goodenough.



Q. Taleesha, have you paid much attention to all the speculation about the
future of the program? Has that been a bother or a hindrance to you guys as
players?



TALEESHA CONDER: No, I don't think so. I think that we just take it day to day
and just go out and play with our hearts. I mean, you have to go out and just
play ball. That's all you got to do, is just play ball.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, we appreciate your good answers. We'll keep coach for
just a few more minutes.

_ 

Q. What do you think your future is at Oklahoma State?



COACH GOODENOUGH: What do I think my future is at Oklahoma State? I have -- I
have received nothing but positive reinforcement from Dr. Schmidly and Dr.
Birdwell. They've just been very supportive of my efforts leading this
program. This is where I would like to be for a long time. I think it's very
difficult to turn a program around in the Big-12 in just a short period of
time. I think we're headed in the right direction. Obviously, we're not happy
with the number of wins we've had this season. I think that this team has been
more competitive this season than the team has been the last two seasons, even
though our record does not reflect a very successful season. I really have
enjoyed our team this year and am very excited about the prospects of the
future, excited about the new players coming in, just excited about what the
future holds for this program.



Q. In practice yesterday y'all talked a lot about slowing down Kiera Hardy. Do
you feel you did a good job of that?



COACH GOODENOUGH: I really did. Taleesha Conder and Catherria Turner on Hardy.
She takes, you know, 25 to 30 shot attempts per game, and we held her to 13.
That took a great defensive effort from Taleesha and Catherria were basically
the ones guarding her tonight and they did a great job. A lot of credit goes
to the other players on their team who stepped up and knocked down big shots.
Their post players were very physical and really wanted the ball tonight. They
had some other players that really rose to the occasion. I know Coach Yori is
probably always happy when she has three players scoring in double figures.



Q. Speaking about the future of the program, your lead by a freshman in
scoring tonight. Do you feel like you have some things for next year?



COACH GOODENOUGH: Pretty much over everyday starting lineup has been one
senior, three sophomores and one freshman. So we've been playing a lot of
minutes with a very young squad on the floor. So I think there are some really
good things to come for this program. Destanie Sykes and Christian Hood have
played some invaluable minutes their first two years at Oklahoma State.
They've played invaluable minutes in the Big-12. Devry McDonald, this is her
first year in the Big-12 and I think she got a good taste of just the level of
play, intensity. That will benefit her in the future. Taleesha Conder I think
is probably one of the top freshmen in the league. She has developed a lot I
think offensively and will I think continue to learn the value of defense.
That's hard at this level I think for the freshmen sometimes. Taleesha I think
will be a tremendous player for this program.



Q. Could you talk about how difficult it is in three years to keep hitting
your head against a wall in a conference like this, maybe how tough the
expectations are for somebody to come in and get something done when it is so
hard.



COACH GOODENOUGH: Well, the Big-12 is arguably the very best women's
basketball conference in America. Even though our team has improved over the
last year, so are all the other teams. You know, I don't see any programs
making huge strides in the conference. The top four or five times will
continue to be being the top four or five times probably for many years. The
thing I think you'll have to do if you're one of the bottom four in the
conference, you have to make strides to move into the middle of the pack. I
don't know how realistic it is to do that in two or three years. I think
Connie has done a great job of having her players come out and play hard and
compete night after night. I do feel like if you're building a program in the
north, you have a little more advantage than you do in the south building a
program when you have probably eight games in the south division against Top
25 programs. I think that prevents you from winning more ballgames. But it's a
difficult task. It's challenging, but one that I have really enjoyed. It's fun
when you can go to work with enthusiasm and optimism every day and just look
forward to practice every day and look forward to the next competition. As a
basketball coach, I can't imagine being in a better situation. We get to
strategize daily on how do we beat Coach Conrad's team, how do we beat Sherri
Coale's team, Coach Sharp's team? We are playing against some of the best
basketball minds in the country, and it is a privilege and honor for me to do
that.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, thanks. Good luck in the off-season.

_

COACH GOODENOUGH: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 8, 2005

  

### [Sherri Coale](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13897)

### [Erin Higgins](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13855)

### [Leah Rush](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14237)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: Congratulations to Coach Coale and the Sooners.

_

COACH COALE: Defensive toughness in the second half, actually shooting the
ball well for two complete halves. It's been a long time since we scored 86
points. Kind of proud of that. I thought our intensity early on, our mental
toughness, being able to fight them off when they're so hot from the 3-point
line, which we did not expect, was outstanding. We were able to hang around
because of that. In the second half relaxed a little bit, started getting some
things going to the basket, opened the game up from there.

_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have some questions for the players.

_ 

Q. Leah, I think you guys had a 10-point lead or so with 15 minutes. Dionnah
gets her fourth foul and she goes to the bench. When she comes back, the games
over. You're up by 20. Can you talk about how you played so well without her?



LEAH RUSH: Britney really came in and did a great job as a backup point. She
knew what she needed to do and she really did her job. We've had to play
without D times before this year. We know what we have to do when she's out. I
think we played well when she was out.



Q. Erin, you guys were up one at halftime. Talk about what you said? Any kind
of sense of urgency at all?



ERIN HIGGINS: Yeah, definitely there's a sense of urgency. With Texas A&M, you
don't want a team like that hanging around. They're very competitive, they
play hard. Like Coach Coale said, we really focused on our defensive
toughness. We also had 41 points at halftime, so we weren't shooting the ball
too badly either. It's all about buckling down and keeping them from scoring.
I really felt second half we did a better job of doing that.



Q. Erin, could you talk about what they were doing differently in the first
half? Last two times they played you, they struggled.



ERIN HIGGINS: I mean, I don't know. They're a very good penetrating team,
which is kind of how we played them in the first half. Once they start hitting
the threes, like they were, they were really hot the first half. So you have
to make adjustments. We did a little switching man on them, we ran some traps,
which I think kind of took them out of their rhythm in the second half.



Q. Leah, you talked earlier about how you were able to take control of the
game with D on the bench. Coming out of the locker room in the second half was
quite a force during the 12-0 run. Talk about what you did?



LEAH RUSH: She sparked it. She got a couple steals there. Those were big.
Everybody just got a little more intense after that. You can't say how
important D is to our team. She just brings these little things. I don't even
know how many minutes she played, 25. But in those minutes, every bit of it
was really important to this team.



Q. You talked about the first half. Maybe you guys got a little frustrated
with some of the baskets you hit in the second half, layups, close shots
weren't going in the first half.



LEAH RUSH: The difference between the first and the second half, I think the
he our intensity. First half we got a little stagnant sometimes. We were just
moving around, not really playing the way we can. Second half we came out and
really tried to flip that around. D started making some plays, and the team
followed.



Q. Erin, you were shooting layups the whole game. Somebody was always open.
What was happening to get you guys so open all the time under the basket?



ERIN HIGGINS: I mean, I think it's just you have point guards who can make
things happen. You have Britney Brown, you have Dionnah, who can drive in
there. You have to have somebody come over and help, because otherwise they're
just going to go wide up and layup. That's how Oklahoma plays. We play
together, and we find the extra person, we make the extra pass, whether it's a
layup or a three. So I think that it's just we've been doing it all season,
but I really think it's coming together right now, which is good timing.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thank you. We'll keep Coach Coale for a few more
minutes. Questions for Coach Coale.

_ 

Q. You said you haven't scored 86 in a while. She said things are coming
together. Do you see that, as well, something coming together with the team?



COACH COALE: Yeah. We've been playing well for quite a while, with the
exception of a second half that everybody in the room knows what I'm talking
about. The difference was we made shots. You know, that sounds so trite and,
you know, logical. It isn't really rocket science sometimes. You've got to
make shots. You asked what happened, somebody asked what happened with D in
the second half, what about her 12 minutes before she got that fourth foul and
had to come out of the game. Her missing that first shot of the second half
might have been the biggest play of the game because she got mad. She did. I
challenged her a little bit at halftime, "You need to make a difference;
you've got to finish plays." Because when D is good, we're good. It's one of
those things, if your best player goes, you go. She missed some easy ones.
When she missed that first one in the second half, there was a difference
about her countenance, and I thought that was the difference in the game.



Q. Can you talk about why you have Brown in the starting lineup and what she
gives you?



COACH COALE: Well, one of the things she gives us obviously is we get D off
the ball a little bit and get to use her going to the rim, get to use her in
fast-break situation, maybe even post her up some, and we keep from wearing
her down so much primarily. But Britney is a tremendous defender. That
alleviates some heat on D at the other end of the floor where D can maybe
guard that point guard that wears on you after a while. You've got to guard
the ball the entire game. Britney can do that. She has made a difference and
taken some of that pressure off of D. But also in doing things that she can
do. She's an excellent penetrator, as you saw tonight. She got to the rim a
number of times. She's improving in other areas, screening and blocking out
and a lot of little things that she's got to do better. I think her presence
there more than anything, it affects everybody, but more than anything it
helps Dionnah.



Q. Can you talk about your halftime assessment. Did you feel maybe you could
keep that pace up better than they could? That was a real great shooting half
for them, which they haven't done a lot this year, especially against you
guys.



COACH COALE: Right. Our game plan coming in was to play the drive. I think I
said to them before the game, They can't make enough shots outside the paint
to beat us. So now my team is looking at me at halftime like, "You're a
genius." I talked a little bit about adjusting the game plan. We were closing
out short, playing the drive. So we went to long closeouts, forced them to
drive and maybe make them go to their weak hand, give good post help, give
nice backside rotation, which is a shell drill we work on every single day. We
did a really good job of that, a really good job. Then we also ran some
switching away from the ball which frustrated them a little bit, and covered
some of our weaknesses perhaps in doing that. You know, our kids concentrated.
We changed defenses a number of times in the second half. Our kids just have
concentrated and adhered to the game plan.



Q. What allowed you guys to run as well as you did, even in the first half, 12
fast-break points, and that's not bad either? Is Britney part of that?



COACH COALE: I think Britney is part of that. We had had some success in
transition against A&M the first two times we played them, not necessarily in
getting to the rim in transition, but in their taking away dribble
penetration, giving us open threes. We got Higgins going that way. I thought
that's how we hurt them worse in transition than with layup.



Q. You said you want to get Jackson involved. Is that maybe why you stay with
her with three fouls, there was a risk she would pick up a fourth foul?



COACH COALE: Yeah, I stayed with her when she had three fouls and it was a
10-point game because it was a 10-point game and we needed to win. That's the
bottom line. She's a smart kid. She's a senior. She's played with three fouls
before. We felt like her presence was absolutely necessary at that point in
the game.



Q. Apparently it wasn't.



COACH COALE: You're knocking my genius status twice in one night. No more
questions from people from Oklahoma (laughter).



Q. Can you talk about what you said to Dionnah at halftime?



COACH COALE: It wasn't much. It doesn't take much. She is a great, great kid,
and an intense competitor. And when you have a kid in your program for four
years, you get to the point where sometimes you don't have to say anything,
you just can look. You know how it is with your children, you can kind of look
and they know. I just grabbed her right before she went out on the floor in
the second half and said, "We have to have you. You're our go-to. You make us
great." And that was it.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, congratulations. We'll see you tomorrow night.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 8, 2005

  

### [LaToya Bond](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13853)

### [Christelle
N'Garsanet](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13908)

### [Cindy Stein](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14283)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have an opening statement by Coach Stein, then questions
of the two players, then we'll let them go and have Coach Stein finish up.

_

COACH STEIN: I'm just very proud of our team. They really hung in there. We
knew that rebounding was going to be critical for us, taking care of the ball.
Those two things we really emphasized. Our kids really stepped up and got
stops when we needed them, really made some big plays. Hitting those free-
throws at the end kind of just really helped us solidify things. I'm just
really proud of them.



Q. LaToya, could you talk about the last six and a half minutes, they scored
only once in the field. Talk about your defense at the end of the game.



LaTOYA BOND: We just knew we had to put great pressure on and get a couple of
stops -- not a couple, but try and get a whole bunch of stops. We just picked
up their pressure on defense. I guess we made a lot of stops, very good stops.



Q. LaToya, did you feel like you owed Kansas something after the two games
that you played during the regular season?



LaTOYA BOND: Of course. I mean, after losing two during the season, I mean, we
wanted to come out there and win. I mean, not just because it was them, but
just 'cause we want to keep going in the tournament. We want to put a
statement down: We're ready.



Q. Christelle, what was it like going in there? It seemed pretty physical?



CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET: Yeah, it was very physical. She's a really good player.
It wasn't easy. But I have to just play my game and just stay focused, not
focusing on her.



Q. Christelle, what about -- LaToya talked how important this was, the third
match-up with Kansas. Did you come in feeling especially energized to try to
win this?



CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET: Yeah, I really wanted it. I'm sure everybody on the
team really wanted it more than anything. Just be here like the other
tournament was really important for our team. Even if it was against somebody
else, we'd feel the same.



Q. You talked about her defense. Talk about her offense.



CHRISTELLE N'GARSANET: She's pretty tough to stop, but you just have to keep
playing even when she scores, don't get down, because he's really good, keeps
pushing you around. You going to only stop her once or twice.



Q. LaToya, maybe you can give a little comment about Baylor tomorrow.



LaTOYA BOND: I mean, it's going to be a tough game. I'm looking forward to it.
I know we're going to have to play good defense and execute on offense to keep
going in the tournament.



Q. LaToya, could you talk about your basket to tie it up at 55? It was a drive
with 2 minutes, 30 seconds left. Do you remember that?



LaTOYA BOND: No, I don't remember that one (laughter). I don't know.

COACH STEIN: It was a heck of a play, wasn't it (laughter)?

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, we'll dismiss you and continue with questions for Coach
Stein of Missouri.

_ 

Q. Could you talk about that last six and a half or so minutes where they
really scored the two points, had big plays from LaToya.



COACH STEIN: What you just saw there was LaToya, that's just her. She just
plays. She's very unselfish. We've really been focusing on our next play,
whether you just made a great play or they made a great play. We're just
really focused on what we've got to do next. LaToya has really embraced that.
I think that's the big thing for us. Sometimes throughout the season we would
get really low when somebody would make a run at us. We're just trying to keep
a good balance out there. But I thought all of our kids throughout the game
made individual plays that were really key. You know, like I said, I just
think that's so important, her stepping up, she can do so many things. I think
honestly she's probably playing with a little adrenaline. I think at this
point she didn't make all Big-12 honorable mention at least. I felt like, and
as I told her, You can make a statement here in the tournament, but you still
have to play balanced. I think she did that today.



Q. Coach, can you talk a little bit about the differences today versus last
time you guys played Kansas?



COACH STEIN: Well, obviously we watched that tape quite a bit. We were two
steps behind on every single play the last time we played. It was extremely
disappointing. Like we've mentioned several times, that was a big part of our
season because we were very disappointed in ourselves and that's not how we
wanted to represent ourselves. The team has been very focused on making our
crowd proud of us and our school proud of us and really fighting. Sometimes
whether it's a win or a loss, it's just trying to make sure we're doing those
little things to not just ensure our future, but to still make a statement
this season. You can't make a statement unless you win your first game because
you don't get to the next one.



Q. Could you talk about the match-up with Baylor?



COACH STEIN: Well, it's going to be an interesting match-up. I think that
everybody knows that Baylor is extremely talented in every single position.
Even when someone plays off, and I think some people have played off, like
Whitaker, and she's been knocking shots down. I just don't think you can take
anybody lightly. We feel good that we have one game under our belt where we
can kind of get the jitters out. We know they're going to be coming in,
running full force with a lot to prove. I think our kids are as ready as they
can be.



Q. Maybe talk about how a victory like this can put a different paint job on
the season? It's been a little tough.



COACH STEIN: You know, it has been a tough season. But we've tried to stay
extremely positive throughout the whole thing. I think our team has
represented that. I think they've done a good job of just working on getting
better and not staying too involved with what everybody else thinks. It's more
what we're trying to do as a team, preparing for this type of a tournament.



Q. They shot over 50% in the first half, I believe 25% in the second half. Did
you make some defensive adjustments?



COACH STEIN: We just basically went back -- we were doing some things more out
of lack of discipline. They were getting some easy shots because we weren't
staying disciplined with our defensive principles, whether it's staying on the
floor, only switching on certain things, trailing on double screens, we just
really tried to emphasize the importance of doing that. I thought we did a
better job in the second half.



Q. The last time you played them, after the game you used words like
"embarrassed, disgusting." What words do you want to use today?



COACH STEIN: Well, I'm excited. We're still playing, and that's all that
matters right now (laughter). All those games that you lost before doesn't
matter. If you can win this thing, it doesn't matter, anything that's happened
throughout the year. That's what our team knows and they believe in that.
Hopefully they'll work hard again tomorrow.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, congratulations. Good win.

_

COACH STEIN: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 8, 2005

  

### [Gary Blair](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14548)

### [A'Quonesia Franklin](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13857)

### [Erica Roy](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16315)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We have Coach Gary Blair along with Erica Roy and A'Quonesia
Franklin. Coach, your brief assessment and then we'll throw it open for
questions for the players.

_

COACH BLAIR: I told Sherri Coale before the ballgame, I'm doing one of these
commuter marriages. It's very, very hard. I get to go home sometime this
weekend. I played Sherri more in the last two years than I've been able to see
my wife. That's not good. So hopefully I'm going to be able to get back to
Fayetteville, see my family. It's been hard. But Sherri Coale plays in the
Big-12 south. There's no way she's the fourth-place team in any type of
conference because they're a very good team. That's what we have here, and I
guarantee you, when I get to the Big-12 meetings, I will try my best to show
what other teams are doing across the country and get out of this divisional
format. We're about the only ones that are still doing it on the women's side.
Then I think you could have better representatives when you come here to the
Final Four. Split it up, play a 14-game schedule. Had nothing to do with the
game. Oklahoma just played a smart game in the second half. Look at the shot
chart in the second half. The shot chart tells the whole game. They only
needed two threes in the second half, and the rest of them were layups,
transition layups or their guards going north/south. We'd rotate over, have no
rotation down. Just did a good job of what we didn't allow in the first half.
We kept them going east/west more. I think a big key for them is what none of
y'all are going to ask about, but Brown. Brown had a very good ballgame for
them and did a super job of handling the basketball and keeping pressure on
our little point guard. This is a kid, we didn't expect her to start. They
probably started her because they were worried about our speed. But they were
getting back so quick on defense, the referees were passed up a half, couple
times. But, I mean, Oklahoma was flying. So our press was ineffective. So we
just had to get back and try to stay with their shooters. I thought Erica Roy
down there kept us in the ballgame in the first half with her midrange game. I
don't think they were expecting it. Second half, we probably didn't go to her
enough or they tightened up a little bit more. A'Quonesia Franklin, she had to
go 40 minutes. The only backup I had at the point guard position, because my
other kid's out with stress fractures, Amy Tennison, she's my assistant coach.
She was a pretty doggone good point guard. As Sam Houston said, "That's all I
had." If we would have got in foul trouble, I would have to compromise with a
referee to see if he'd let her stay on. She did a great job with the freshmen.
When five out of your eight kids are freshmen, this is just like a baptism out
there. It's hard, hard to play juniors and seniors in this league on a
consistent basis with freshmen. It's a learning experience. We've made a lot
of mistakes, but we grew up a lot, we're going to get better. We're hoping to
go to the WNIT where we can continue to get better. 14-14 should get us there
or should get any team in one of the power conferences. We're not finished
playing ball. We'll be practicing on Monday and we'll be ready to go again.

_

THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Erica and aqua necessity that.

_ 

Q. A'Quonesia, talk about the tempo of the first half, offensively what you
felt you guys were doing right to get so many baskets and shoot so well from
the field.



A'QUONESIA FRANKLIN: First half, we was just executing, getting the ball
inside. We was going north and south instead of east and west, getting the
ball to the hole. That was the difference from the first and second half, when
we was going east and west.



Q. I think you started the second half with five turnovers in the first three
minutes. Some defensive changes they made or your lack of execution?



A'QUONESIA FRANKLIN: It was lack of execution on our part. Dionnah Jackson
came out pumped, forced a couple turnovers on our players. But we tried to
come back and hold our composure and stay into the game. But they were too far
ahead.



Q. Erica, talk about your first half. Coach talked about hitting those
midrange jumpers. You seemed to be in a zone. What was different for you
tonight offensively?



ERICA ROY: They usually don't guard me. They usually play me half and half. My
teammates did a good job in finding me. I was open. I was able to knock it
down.



Q. Erica, talk about that first four minutes of the second half, when they
went on the 12-0 run.



ERICA ROY: It happened so fast, it was back to back. Like A'Quonesia said,
lack of execution. We just wasn't focused. We needed to be focused.



Q. A'Quonesia, talk about the halftime. It's 42-41, you're shooting 50%, a lot
of assists. Sky high at halftime. What is your approach? Just a point down.



A'QUONESIA FRANKLIN: Well, we wanted to come in and keep up the execution we
had in the first half, try to keep up on the defense. But we came in unfocused
and not ready to play, not ready to keep up with OU's tempo that they came out
with.



Q. Erica, if you would answer that, too.



ERICA ROY: We should have kept the pressure up. We really just should have
kept playing together as a team. That's what had us close in the game before
we went into halftime, when we were executing and getting out of the lanes,
pressuring the ball.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thanks. Good luck in the post-season. We'll continue
with questions for Coach Blair.

_ 

Q. Talk about those five turnovers. Maybe a couple of them weren't the
defense. You don't get the shot, threw it away. What did you think about those
first three and a half minutes?



COACH BLAIR: Well, they put Jackson on our four player, they put her on
Morenike. We were trying to isolate a post down low. Both times we broke up to
the high post. She either stoled it or she stripped the ball from Katy Pounds
once. That's what she's capable of. I mean, it was like looking at a
reincarnation of Takara Williams. That's the same type of player we had last
year. That's what Jackson is. She's one of the best in the country. Those WNBA
scouts, why do you think every team was here? They're looking at that young
lady right there. She's a next-level player. Turnovers were costly. I tried to
call a couple timeouts. When they hit the easy baskets, momentum going, I
probably should have even used another timeout. Our team's psyche is very
fragile when things do not go our way. That's where I have to save my timeouts
for the second half, to be able to teach, not necessarily motivate.



Q. Talk about at halftime, seemed like the tempo was going your way. Did you
feel like the first half offensively, how would you rate that against a
quality opponent? Do you think that was one of your best offensive first
halves against a quality opponent?



COACH BLAIR: On certain issues it was. I thought we hit key shots, contested
key shots, tough shots, with all three of the outside players. But really we
just didn't get the inside games that we want. They got almost every rebound,
every loose ball. There was no OU player on the board before an A&M player 90%
of the time. That's when you know OU is on the bubble. Sherri will tell you
that right now. They played like they had something to prove, and they did. I
wanted to get the game into the second half and then try to play five-minute
intervals and try to get it into the last. We were playing totally relaxed, as
you could see how well we shot. If we could have got it into the last five
minutes, that collar gets a little bit tighter. We just didn't get it. The
veteran team, Jackson, Higgins, Rush, they just did a super job. That's a good
basketball team. Remember last year, they're the only team in the Big-12
that's won this tournament by playing four games. And don't rule it out. You
don't have to be the best team; all you have to do is play the best on a given
day. And it is always to the advantage of the team that won today versus the
team that didn't play today. I look for some upsets tomorrow. I don't know
who, but there will be one tomorrow, I promise you.



Q. You talked about hoping to get to the WNIT. Now that these freshmen have
gone basically through a full season, what have you seen from them? What can
you do with the WNIT?



COACH BLAIR: I wish this would have been Morenike's finest hour. Most of you
in this room haven't had a chance to see her play this year. She didn't have a
single rebound the whole night. She wants to put on a better performance, just
like my other freshmen did tonight. And it was a shame you didn't get to see
the best of her. But she'll be back more in the WNIT. And we want to play. I
mean, we want to play. If we could go back and play AAU during the summer,
we'd play that, too. But they won't let us do that. We want to play. We want
to get the individual workouts, we want to teach, teach, teach, because we
made a lot of mistakes in the second half that are correctable. We've got to
go back and teach before we can coach. You could tell with our freshmen, we're
going to make mistakes. So we're going to be all right. Just give us another
recruiting class. We'll be okay, and move me out of the Big-12 South.



Q. How far has Franklin come just in the last few weeks?



COACH BLAIR: It started at the Texas Tech game. That's the best game we played
in two years. It started in the Texas Tech game, her going against Erin Grant.
The respect both of them got from each other. We're up by 5 with 3:18 to go.
We don't score the last six possessions. Erin Grant directs a two-minute
offense, and A'Quonesia doesn't. That's the learning curve. Since that
ballgame, our whole team has played well, maybe not for 40 minutes like we
didn't tonight, but each game we have played well since there. A'Quonesia,
she's just exciting. I felt for her on that last layup that didn't go. She
worked so hard for it. But when you're 5'3", most people 5'3" are sports
writers. Folks, I appreciate you. Coverage is good. Stay with us the whole
way. Let's get this thing going. Kansas City has done a tremendous job with
their hospitality there. I'm going to go find me a steak in this town tonight
and enjoy it.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 8, 2005

  

### [Ceal Barry](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16309)

### [Veronica Johns-
Richardson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16310)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'll have a quick opening statement from Coach, then open it
to questions.

_

COACH BARRY: I felt like it was really, really important that we control the
tempo against Iowa State because they're so much more experienced than us.
They run their break so well that we really needed to control the tempo. I
thought Yari and Veronica did a great job of controlling tempo of the game. I
don't think there were too many possessions where we weren't in control of the
ball. I think we were able to cut possessions down a little bit and keep the
tempo more in our favor. I'm sure you want to know about that last possession
or two. I told Anna to go ahead and take it, it was probably the best shot we
had all night. I would tell her 10 times out of 10 to go ahead and take it
because, you know, we had I think a one-point lead at that point. Wanted to go
ahead and push it up a little bit and play defense. We probably would have
called timeout and got our defense set. But, you know, things didn't go our
way. Got to give a lot of credit to Iowa State for not giving up. They hung in
there, hung in there, hung in there. I think they played from behind the
entire game. So it's tough for our kids. I know you're going to see a lot of
Yari Escalera, Kara Richards, Jackie McFarland, Nedovic. Our sophomores are
good. I doubt this is the last time we'll come in as the No. 12 seed.



Q. V.J., you wanted to come in and try to slow them down in transition. Did
you feel like you did a pretty good job of that throughout the ballgame?



VERONICA JOHNS-RICHARDSON: Yes, we did. I felt like we got back on defense.
One of the game plans was to get Yari and I back. She's back, she's taking
charges on back, trying to look for the steal, getting in the passing lane.
And we did that. We forced them to run their offense. I mean, that was a whole
'nother subject. We did a really good job of taking away those threes in
transition. Anna, Sarah, Jasmina really got out on the wings, denying hard.
That was a big part of it, too.



Q. Veronica, do you feel you may have had them on their heals a little bit, a
little panicking, wondering what was going on there?



VERONICA JOHNS-RICHARDSON: There's no doubt about that. I mean, like Coach
Barry said, we have to credit Iowa State for not giving up. But they got 8-8
with one tonight. We were making our shots, except for me of course. But as a
team, we were making our shots. We were hitting the open player. We are ran
the triangle -- last couple games, we've been running the triangle so well.
Today we did. We exploited their zone. They had to come out of it and play man
because they couldn't keep up with us. So, yeah, definitely they were on their
heels.



Q. V.J., how long is it going to take you to get over this?



VERONICA JOHNS-RICHARDSON: Well, this is it for me, you know. I don't know. I
mean, this is the same way -- this was similar to our game last week against
Nebraska. Came down to it, free-throws and a layup, a defensive stop. We got
it. Like Coach Barry said, this team's not going to be 12th any more. But I
won't be a part of that. I think the one thing I need to do is look at the
positives, especially from what I've done individually. I've hit some big
shots like when we played Notre Dame last year. Came out strong my sophomore
year against OU at home. I mean, it's going to be hard to think about this
individual game. But I just have to look at the big picture. The big picture
looks great.



Q. Ever had a game where you had -- I don't know what the number of steals
were, but --



VERONICA JOHNS-RICHARDSON: This many steals?



Q. Yes.



VERONICA JOHNS-RICHARDSON: I don't know. I've been pretty consistent all year
with my steals. I couldn't tell you if I've had more than five in a game. But,
I mean, overall, this whole season I averaged either two or three each game
where I get one of those break-away layups or something.



Q. Was there something they were doing that made steals easier for you?



VERONICA JOHNS-RICHARDSON: The one thing, Iowa State, they run their plays.
Like they have play calls like a baseball team. Thumb up stack, pat face test,
whatever. We have the scout. We knew the scout. I knew where the ball was
going. I mean, I gambled. Anne O'Neil is a great player. If I come over and
try to help Yari on penetration, Medders kicks the ball to Anne O'Neil for a
three. You know, I have to be smart and play our defensive concepts. But give
credit to Coach Haave. She gave us a great scout. We knew this team inside and
out.



Q. What did you tell Anna in the locker room?



VERONICA JOHNS-RICHARDSON: Well, the thing is that it never comes down to one
possession. It doesn't come down to a layup. I mean, I missed a free-throw in
the last minute. It's about every single minute, you know. Coach Barry gave us
a game plan. We did the game plan. Coach Barry told us the defense. We did the
defense. This whole season, I mean, we've been not fighting but just trying to
figure out our own way. And today we did it with the Colorado way. It came
down to it. Like I said, they got away with one. Lyndsey Medders hit two big
shots in the way and it just didn't fall for us. Anna, she knows. She's just a
sophomore. She's got a lot of pressure on her. She got 12 point and 10
rebounds. She finishes this year with a double-double. That's amazing.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, good luck to you in the off-season. We'll keep Coach
Barry for a few more minutes.

_ 

Q. Coach, I don't know if you had time before the game to envision what the
final moments of your final game may be like, but was it anything close to
this?



COACH BARRY: No. I mean, I think I learned a long time ago, you don't want to
even try to predict or guess. I think that's what makes coaching so exciting,
is you can't even script any second of a basketball game. I think to do so,
you would probably get ahead of yourself. They really determined the outcome
of the game. That was kind of nice to have your heart racing, asking your
assistants about 20 times per minute how many timeouts do I have left, and
they just told me five seconds ago. But as far as how I feel about them, this
is the team that beat us by probably 30 or so in Iowa, had their way with us
in Boulder. You know, coaching a team is a progression, you know, it's a
process. Despite the fact we missed the shot, I have to be proud of a team
that understands its limitations. So despite the fact it ended that way the
last six, seven seconds, you know, I think it's the coach's responsibility to
look at the bigger picture and see, where were we in the beginning and where
are we now, and have we done or job. I'm proud of those kids. They came a long
way.



Q. I'm sure with people asking you questions about retiring and everything,
it's been slowly sinking in. When will this actually sink in, that it was your
last game?



COACH BARRY: You know, just a small bit walking off the court. But probably
not until it's October 15th. You know, everybody's getting their new gear, got
creases in it. Everybody's pulling out their new stuff, starting to talk about
basketball I think on the first practice. Definitely first game. I'm a coach
that's staying at the school, where she left. I don't know why, I'm a glutton
for punishment as far as that's concerned because I love those kids.



Q. Having had this kind of finish, are you having any second thoughts?



COACH BARRY: Oh, I'm sure I'm going to have a lot of second thoughts. You
know, when Yari goes off and has a double-double next year with points and
assists, or Kara has a great game, I'm going to go, "Man, I should have stuck
around." I think every former coach in America has sent me an email or phone
call. "You're going to miss it. You're going to miss it." I knew that before I
decided. There are certainly things I'm going to miss. I don't think they'll
ever be replaced. But, you know, you make decisions for a variety of reasons.
Miss it that much. There's a lot of other jobs you can go back, send all the
presents back (laughter).



Q. Did you let it soak in at all when you were walking off the court?



COACH BARRY: No. I don't want to cry. I was kind of concerned about how the
team was really. That's good for a coach, I think, to stay busy. "How is Anna
feeling? How is the team?" Your job's not done when the buzzer goes off.
You've got to mop up afterwards and make sure everybody's okay. So I think as
long as I stay busy, what time the plane is leaving, what time to be on the
bus, clean up your bills, do all those things. It just gives you something to
do. I'll probably be sitting home alone someday and have a breakdown.



Q. Was this overall game about as well as you played?



COACH BARRY: The one I'm most proud of is that they understood how to win. I
mean, they understood what it was going to take against a top-ranked team to
win. You have to play to your strengths, cover up your weaknesses. This team,
as most 19-year-olds have been hardheaded at times, they want to play their
way, the way that worked for them five years ago. Understand, trust me, I've
been in this league for a while, this is the way you need to play. I think
they bought in. I thought they really bought in to play the way we needed to
play against a very good Iowa State team, an Iowa State team that I think,
given their draw, where they go, is going to do very well in the NCAA
tournament.



Q. Was this maybe as good a coaching game day, coaching experience, that
you've ever had?



COACH BARRY: Well, no. I'd take any of those wins over the loss. But I think,
you know, if I was coaching this team next season, I'd feel pretty good about
that game because you want them to adhere to a system of play, and they
adhered to a system of play. They'll be able to adhere to someone else's
system of play. It's about discipline, accountability, all those things you
try to teach. Despite the score board, I can honestly say - I'm going to say
this - I walked off the court for the last time and felt good about their
understanding of what they need to do, about their discipline, about their
teamwork, about all the things that I'm hired to do, that I can see they
demonstrated that today.

_

THE MODERATOR: Let me say on behalf of the Big-12, we really appreciate all
your help. You're going to be part of the Legends of Ceal Barry on FSN between
games. We're looking forward to that national telecast. Thank you so much for
all you've done for the Big-12.

_

COACH BARRY: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=BIG+12+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 8, 2005

  

### [Chelsea Aubry](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16312)

### [Kiera Hardy](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13848)

### [Connie Yori](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13896)

  
_KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI_  
  
_

THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Coach Yori. Coach, we'll have you give us
a brief opening statement.

_

COACH YORI: I just thought our players played with very good intelligence. I
thought we played Oklahoma State's personnel, like I said, with good
intelligence. We played them a different way the first time we played them. We
gave I believe 71 points. This time we gave up 45. I thought that was
obviously the difference. We played them to pressure them the first time. This
time we picked them up in the full court, but I thought we did a good job in
our halfcourt defense of understanding what they wanted to do and trying to
take advantage of things that we identified that they wanted to do. But I
thought our players really followed our game plan really well. Then, you know,
as the game got going, you know, obviously our free-throw shooting in the
second half was a positive. I thought we got a great game out of Jelena Spiric
on the boards and was real aggressive around the basket and played plays for
us. Chelsea Aubry made a lot of plays for us, as well, really on both ends.

_

THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Kiera Hardy and Chelsea Aubry.

_ 

Q. Chelsea, can you talk about the way you guys didn't seem to play quite as
tight? Were you loser, more relaxed?



CHELSEA AUBRY: Yeah, we decided to put it all out there. We really had nothing
to lose. We were playing Oklahoma State, who they're a very good team, and
they came close last time. We decided to go out and just have fun this time.



Q. Kiera, I wouldn't -- it's not a slump. You wouldn't call what you're going
through a slump, would you? Did you feel more comfortable out there tonight
shooting the ball? What was it like being back here, too?



KIERA HARDY: It was good being back at home. I can't tell you what I feel
right now. I don't think there's a name for it. I felt comfortable shooting
the ball. You're just going to have them nights. Got to keep playing.



Q. Kiera, what does it feel like to win a game? I guess you haven't won a game
in Kansas City, the team hasn't, since 2000.



KIERA HARDY: It's big for us. Just any win is really big. Just coming into
this tournament, we have high hopes, going as far as we can, just playing
hard. After losing four games, we just wanted to start over and come in with a
win.



Q. Chelsea, when Kiera has been in a slump or whatever she wants to call it,
how important is it for other players to step up and take some of that
offensive pressure off of her?



CHELSEA AUBRY: Well, I think it's really important, I guess just to let her
know that we can help her out and just show her, and just keep encouraging
her. I wouldn't really call it a slump, because she's still scoring in
different ways, it's just not as much I guess as shooting as she's used to. So
I think it's real important for everyone to just get involved. It's a big team
effort.



Q. Kiera, this is your second year at Nebraska. She's starting now. Coach
Yori, how has she impacted you from the standpoint of her game and from the
team?



COACH YORI: Well, I got to ask the question a lot earlier in the year, Who is
going to score for us? We lost a lot of scorers off our team last year. I was
confident that Kiera could put up some numbers for us, some big numbers.
Coming into the season knowing what she had done late in the season last year,
I had hoped that she could carry that over. Now, did I think she could average
20 points a game? No. But we're glad that she does. We think that she's a
great scorer and she's a really, really tough cover in this league. The
question was asked, Do we need to have other players step up? Absolutely.
Kiera sees hard pressure every game. It's hard for her to get catches. They
half-double her off of her dribble penetration. She doesn't get clean looks.
Whatever you guys want to call it, Kiera is a great player. I don't call it a
slump. I call it the fact that Kiera is getting a lot of attention paid to
her. So it was time for some of our players to step up. Chelsea did that
tonight. You know, we need Kiera to score, absolutely, but we also need some
other players to do that for us, too. I'm kind of answering two questions at
the same time, but Kiera came to our program and she has lost 30 pounds since
she was a high school senior. She has made herself a great player through her
efforts and conditioning, and her efforts to be really disciplined in terms of
her diet and, like I said, conditioning. I'm just very proud of the fact that
she has done that. I think she's one of my favorite players I've coached
because she's come so far. I really think that Kiera is going to continue to
get better and better. She's got areas where she can improve, but she already
is a very good player.

_

THE MODERATOR: Ladies, good luck to you. We'll keep Coach Yori for a couple
more minutes.

_ 

Q. Specifically how did you play Oklahoma State different defensively than
last time?



COACH YORI: We played a lot softer this time in the halfcourt. The first time
we played them, you know, just looking at -- if you -- just looking at a stat
line, period, when you look at Oklahoma's stats, we thought we could really
try to pressure them in the halfcourt and turned them over the first time we
played them. We didn't do that. They had 13 turnovers, which isn't an enormous
number. This time we sagged a lot, we helped a lot, we doubled the post. We
did not do that the first time. I just thought our positioning, we played
different -- we played a softer, more positioning type of defense. Again, it
obviously -- you know, one of the things, you looked at the shot chart from
our game the first time, it was ridiculous the shots they got. They got shots
right underneath the basket time and time and time again. Last time they only
made 3s against us. They made 3-3s against us. And every other made they had
was within five to six feet of the basket. We tried to play inside out instead
of outside in.



Q. With Chelsea playing so well tonight, that bodes well going into Kansas
State tomorrow, having more power inside for you.



COACH YORI: Well, Chelsea hit some perimeter shots tonight, too. I thought she
was really aggressive around the basket, really on both ends. She's capable of
scoring inside as well as stepping away and hitting perimeter shots. Like I
said, we're going to need other people to score. You go back and look at the
last time we played Kansas State, it was a game maybe 12, 13 minutes into the
game, Kiera picks up her second foul, and I'm dumb enough to leave her on the
bench the rest of the half. The game went the other direction. They took over
the game and had a huge run on us. But we have to have other people score
besides Kiera. When so much attention is paid to her, it's time for some of
our other players to step up and score.



Q. (No microphone.)



COACH YORI: I feel great about being 8-8 now. I know we lost our last four
games of the regular season, but, my gosh, this is a great league. If you can
be .500 at this juncture of the development of our program, I feel awfully
good about it. I feel like our players have done a great job of maximizing
their potential and trying like crazy to do the best they can and to be
coachable, just playing as hard as they can. I think, you know, this
conference is so difficult and everyone knows how difficult it is to make a
jump. Every single administration in this league is 100% committed to women's
basketball. For us to finish in the top half of the league in what is my third
year, I just feel like we're ahead of the game. We've made strides a little
more quickly than I would have thought. I just really feel like, you know,
it's just about our players. Our players, you know, we -- our players have
just really done what we've asked them to do. It's fun to coach this team.



Q. What did you talk to your players about leading into this tournament after
a disappointing finish to the regular season?



COACH YORI: We talked about let's just get back to having some fun. Chelsea
mentioned it. The expectation became higher in some ways than our talent
level. You know, all of a sudden people were saying, "Boy, you guys could
finish third or second or fourth." We were picked ninth in the league. The
reason that we won games early was because of our chemistry, our work ethic,
our players caring about each other, having fun, enjoying the ride. We needed
to get back to that. I feel like our players enjoy each other. We have a
really good team chemistry. We need to get back to making sure that was a
priority. We hope that that can get us another win in this tough conference.



Q. You talk about how difficult it is to make a dent in this conference.
Obviously Oklahoma State has had a very hard time. Can you empathize with
Julie?



COACH YORI: Absolutely. I think Julie Goodenough is a great coach in this
league. I think there's a great coaches in this league and she's one of them.
It's ridiculous to think that anyone would think in three years that you can,
you know, definitely make an impact. It takes years to recruit kids and to get
them experience in this league. I mean, one of the most important classes for
us right now is the kids that are juniors in high school. Think about that.
They're not going to really make an impact for us for three years. This is
just too hard of a league, too tough of a league to step in and be guaranteed
that you can, boom, get some wins. I think Julie does a great job with the
talent that she has. She deserves to coach in this league. They need to give
her some time. They need to give her an opportunity to recruit and get better.



Q. (No microphone.)



COACH YORI: I don't really think that we were that tight. I do think maybe
there was, like I said, a little bit more of an expectation there with people
talking, saying, "Boy, you guys could really make something special happen
this year." You know, we've played hard. Other than our KU game, I didn't feel
like we played hard at KU, but other than KU, we played hard. Tonight as an
example, the Iowa State/Colorado game comes down to the wire. We lost to
Colorado last week. Colorado played well. I mean, they played really well in
that game. We played hard. We had 19 offensive rebounds, we have -- I don't
remember what the other stat was. I mean, we made some hustle plays. 19
steals, 19 offensive rebounds. I don't think it's about -- it wasn't the fact
we were giving into it. It was more about, you know, maybe people have figured
us out a little bit more than what they did earlier in the year. I think the
second time through the conference, I think people started to play us a little
differently, just like we played Oklahoma State tonight.

_

THE MODERATOR: Coach, congratulations. We'll see you tomorrow.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [Elaine Elliott](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15524)

### [Lana Sitterud](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16293)

### [Kim Smith](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14523)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: We're joined by University of Utah head coach Elaine Elliot; No.
32, Lana Sitterud; and No. 4, Kim Smith. Coach, open up with some comments,
then we'll take questions for the student athletes.

_

COACH ELLIOTT: Well, you know, I mean, a hard-fought game. It was wasn't
pretty. Both teams played really, really hard. We competed hard. I am really
proud of our team for what we asked, which is just a great effort, you know,
great intensity. Those things were there. You know, the offense wasn't. The
shooting wasn't. We just -- I love this team. I love these kids sitting up
here for what they have given us, a great conference season. We're proud of
what we've done. We're proud of the commitment that we've made. We played to
compete. I still feel that way after a hard-fought game.

_

JIM MILLER: For the next few minutes open it up for questions directed to Kim
or Lana.

_ 

Q. This is for either of you. Do you have any explanation for the horse
shooting? It seemed like a lot of the lay-ups were short. Was there any
tiredness or any explanation you have for the shooting?



KIM SMITH: Well, I think we were tired. I mean, we're playing three games in
four days, so you are going to be a little tired. An explanation for it? Not
really. They just weren't falling tonight. I think we did a good job as a team
doing the things we could control. We just couldn't put the ball in the hoop
tonight.

_

JIM MILLER: Lana, the same question.

_

LANA SITTERUD: What Kim said, you know, we can't have the excuse that we're
tired. I am sure New Mexico is tired. They shot well and we didn't. Maybe it
was the environment. I don't know what it was. I wish I could tell you.

_

JIM MILLER: Other questions? Last chance. Okay. We'll let you two go. Thank
you. Questions for Coach Elliot?

_ 

Q. Cut it to four there late in the second half and they got a follow-up
3-pointer. Was that what kind of took the wind out of the rally there?



COACH ELLIOTT: I think in any game, of course there is that point in time
where you know who is going to make a play. What turns it is whether it is a
big defense or a big board or a put back or just simply who comes down and
hits a shot and who can't match it. I think they have done that all year. And
that is what that I have done so well. Somebody just hits something and it
just sticks a dagger in you. We never hit that shot all night. In that point
in time, certainly that is the case. You are just right there, and somebody
off their team says, no. That is how you win games. We have done that a lot.
We obviously had it done to us tonight.



Q. Do you worry that -- you guys lost this game last year. Do you worry that
it will affect your tournament hopes? And how do you feel in terms of get an
at-large bid?



COACH ELLIOTT: I was surprised last year. I thought I really knew pretty much
what was going on after all the years that I have been around. But, you know,
they sort of -- they meaning the committee. You learn what it is they want you
to do to make their decisions more clear, easier. We did every one of those
things. I absolutely, this time, believe and I -- I don't want to even discuss
what emotions would occur if I am wrong this time, you know. I am still around
after last year. I don't know if I would be this year.



Q. Elaine, you have won eight titles in the last ten years. Any explanation
for lack of success in these league tournaments?



COACH ELLIOTT: Well, I don't know. I don't have the answer. My best theory is
that these aren't made for your best teams. These are made for the seven teams
that don't win. Or the six teams. That is what the conference tournaments are
made for. It's never been made for the your best teams. The best teams proven
over two months who they are and where they should go and what should happen
to them. That is why you don't see -- it is not usual that the conference
winner wins the conference tournament. Like all over the country, how many one
seeds don't win their tournaments. New Mexico is doing great. It isn't normal.
It is just a testament to them. It is still, I think, theoretically like that
just two times in six years. Again, it is not like every single year that
happens. It is a grind to win a regular season championship. Your focus is on
that every single game for two months. Other teams are here. Their focus has
been on the tournament for anywhere from six weeks to two weeks. It is a
different mental approach. Perhaps it is a difficult one to do. Perhaps I
haven't been good at creating the next step, I guess.



Q. It seemed like you were getting a lot of good looks. Did you feel like you
were getting the shots that you wanted?



COACH ELLIOTT: The only thing I was not happy with us is that we lost what was
happening in the paints. I wasn't concerned about that. We weren't getting
shots. We weren't hitting any of them and we needed difficult ones. We needed
to get the ball to the post. It was either your guards weren't looking or your
posts weren't posting. That's kind of our story. You know, it doesn't matter
if it is repleting and cajoling and, you know -- that is the one thing that
needed to have happened and it didn't.



Q. Elaine, could you comment on what Marsh has meant to the Lobos, from what
you have seen?



COACH ELLIOTT: She is special freshman. When you can put the kind of numbers
up and make an impact on the games that she has, I mean, there is no doubt.
First of all, Moore and Arndt did there part. That team is about Moore and
Arndt. But, yes, that third piece, that other kid, in this case, gives them
that different dimension in the post. I mean, a different game with Arndt and
Moore, what they do for that team. She is the difference maker within, but
without losing the fact that this team is about Moore and Arndt. I don't know.
Those two kids have had great careers. They're finishing well. That should
happen for any kind of pair of kids that come in to a system, play together
with that much talent, and are that successful for their four-year career.

_

JIM MILLER: One more question, if there is one. Okay. Thank you, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 12, 2005

  

### [Lindsey Arndt](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16296)

### [Don Flanagan](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13837)

### [Dionne Marsh](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14530)

### [Mandi Moore](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14527)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: Coach, make some opening comments then we'll open it up for
questions to the student athletes.

_

COACH FLANAGAN: Evidently it was a defensive battle. You know, I never thought
we could keep them in the 30s. Our goal was to keep them in the 50s. Had we
done that, we wouldn't have won the game. I am happy that we kept them in the
30s. Mixed up our defenses quite a bit. Tried to delay them in the back court.
They run a great offense and set a lot of screens. They've got some
outstanding scorers. We were just trying to delay them down the floor,
hopefully they'll run out of time, which they did a couple of times with
30-second clock. The other key was blocking out. Don't give them second shots.
And then take way their transition game, which I thought we did pretty well.
So it was a defensive game. It was workmanlike, blue collar. I am proud of
what we did today.

_

JIM MILLER: For the next few minutes direct your questions to the student
athletes.

_ 

Q. Dionne, one of those games when nobody else was hitting really. Did you
feel any extra pressure because of that or did you just continue to play your
game?



DIONNE MARSH: I thought that I wasn't making time. I was missing a lot of
little lay-ups that I usually do better in making. I guess we did show a
little bit in making lay-ups and things like that. Overall, I think we did
pretty well.



Q. Did they get more physical in the second half trying to limit your touches?



DIONNE MARSH: A little bit. I got a few shots to the face in this game. They
were thinking this could be their last game. I guess you have to expect any
and everything. But, it was a little more physical in the second half. We all
stepped up as a team and we still won.



Q. Mandi, considering the four years you have had and this season, breaking
0-26 and breaking the 0-12 at Colorado State, did you feel this would be a
team of destiny to win this?



MANDI MOORE: We were saying in the locker room, you know, we have got to win
at Utah, we've got to win at Colorado State. Why not make it a three-peat?
It's never been done. Kind of a team of making history. We didn't want to stop
here.



Q. How would you compare the atmosphere at the Pepsi Center having some fan
support?



LINDSEY ARNDT: It was similar to the Pit. It is not quite as loud because the
Pepsi Center is so much larger, the sound travels a little bit more. We have
great fans. They are so loud and consistently loud. Throughout the game they
are always loud. That helps us a lot. It was a lot like a game at the Pit.
Nothing compares to the Pit, but it was close.

MANDI MOORE: You know, the Pit is a crazy place to play. It is rowdy.
Everybody is down in on you. Nothing really can compare to the Pit. We had an
amazing turnout here today here at the Pepsi Center. Nothing beats the Pit,
but today was pretty good.



Q. Utah cut it to four points. Katie came down and hit the point. Elaine
Elliott, the Utah coach, called that the dagger. Do you feel that way?



MANDI MOORE: I wasn't paying attention I guess to know if it was the dagger. I
don't know. You never know with Utah. They fight until the very end. They can
be down ten with a minute left. We saw it at Utah two weeks ago I think. It is
never over until the buzzer rings with those guys. It kind of strengthened our
momentum and they had to start fouling.



Q. Lindsey, talk about what you want to achieve out of this NCAA tournament?
Where do you think you ought to be seeded since you won?



LINDSEY ARNDT: I think a six seed would be very nice. Anyway, I think a six
seed would be nice. But you never know what the committee is going to do. I
would like to advance further in the NCAA. The first time last year we won
one. This year we would like to win more than one obviously and keep
progressing through the tournament. That is our goal as of now.



Q. Dionne, being a freshman on a team with upper classmen, was MVP a little
more than you expected in your first conference tournament?



DIONNE MARSH: A lot more than I expected. A lot of people ask me that. No,
actually there were like seven girls ahead of me. I was going to take whatever
I could get and be happy with it. It was a learning experience for me. The
things I got today I am more than happy with.

_

JIM MILLER: Anything else for the three ladies?

_ 

Q. Dionne, you haven't played much in a game, that many minutes. Did fatigue
ever come into play?



DIONNE MARSH: Today I don't think so. I think it was an adrenaline rush. The
first half went by fast actually. I think I got knocked around a lot in it. It
kind of got to me. I kind of got a little sore. Today it was just an
adrenaline rush. We could win and be champions three times and coming in to my
first year, that would be great.

_

JIM MILLER: Anything else? We'll let you guys take off. Thank you very much.
Congratulations. Open it up for questions directed to Coach Flanagan.

_ 

Q. Don, when nobody else is hitting, is that a lot to ask to have a freshman
even though she is playing her 30th game to carry the offense for a while
until somebody does start hitting?



COACH FLANAGAN: Yeah, but you know, really, as I said and I believe this, she
is a mismatch for anybody in the conference one-on-one. We didn't ask her to
carry us, but we were throwing her the ball an awful lot. She is not going to
mentally -- she is not going to worry about that. She kind of gets focussed on
what she has to do. She is not worried about carrying a team. Actually, Dionne
averaged more points this year in her first year at college than she did at
her senior year at high school. That is very, very unusual. I think as she
said she is a very humble person. She will do what you ask her to do. She
comes from an excellent family. Her upside is quite good obviously.



Q. Lindsey thinks you guys might be a six seed. What do you think about that?



COACH FLANAGAN: Anything I say would be speculation. I know one thing. I know
we're going. Other than that, we're 26 and 4. We played a pretty good
schedule. You know, I think we ought to be around that. I mean, I would like
to get a six seed. Personally, I think Lindsey would like to get a six seed
also.



Q. Let me ask you the same question I asked the players about Katie's three
pointer that kind of broke a lull. In fact, Coach Elliot went on to say it has
been a trademark for you guys to make the big play all year.



COACH FLANAGAN: This team has been a great team of poise and character. I
think what happened to both teams today, we had a real physical game
yesterday. It was a difficult game yesterday. You see a lot of cardiovascular
fatigue. I think everybody by the end of that game was beat up a little bit.
Nobody was really playing as sharp as they played early on in the tournament.
So, it might have been Katie's shot. I was hoping it would have been Abbie's
free throws. I don't think it was nervousness. She missed some free throws
that she normally doesn't miss. Lindsey follows as a three-point shooter. She
could have made a better decision on that. That is okay. Lindsey did just
fine.



Q. I think everybody has seen teams dominate back to the basket, score and
kind of get stagnant. Did you see any of that today?



COACH FLANAGAN: It can become a focus. They play a real physical brand of
defense. It was hard to get the ball from one player to the next. If you put
it on the floor, they are bodying you all over. They are denying passing
lanes. We try to use the full floor and make cuts and set screens and move.
But evidently the only person we could get it to a lot of times ended up being
Dionne. This was one taking the big shot. That doesn't bother me a bit. You
have got a chance to get fouled if you are inside. Also you have got a chance
with the ball going inside to get an offensive rebound. I think it is a high
percentage play to get it inside especially since the defense was so physical
and so tough.

_

JIM MILLER: Anything else for Coach Flanagan? Okay. Thanks, Coach. Good luck
the next few weeks.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Nikki Hitchens](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16295)

### [Regina Miller](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13838)

### [Sheena Moore](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14529)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  

COACH REGINA MILLER: I thought we played hard. I thought we played very
focused. We really competed each possession and I thought, you know, it is
something I emphasized with the team. We are a team of quality and, you know,
you look out there -- and I just heard Don say that 99 percent of the fans
there at the game was for the Lobos, but we did hear our percent that was
there. However, we don't have necessarily have the quantity, but I thought we
played with quality. You know, we put a great effort out there. It is
unfortunate that we didn't make enough layups. I thought that hurt us down the
stretch when they made their run. They scored two points within the last four
minutes; that is going to hurt you. We just didn't close the game. I thought
it was a great effort by the Lady Rebels and a very competitive game.

_

JIM MILLER: Questions directed to Sheena or Nikki.

_ 

Q. Sheena, talk about the sequence at the end of the game where you had a
pretty open look, and you have been making them the last couple of days. What
was going through your mind? Did you feel you were rushed, or did you feel
good about it?



SHEENA MOORE: I shot the ball with confidence. I did feel rushed. I didn't
have time to look at the clock. I believe we passed it in, dribbled it a
couple of dribbles. I believe it was 5.3 seconds left. I guess I didn't
realize how much time we had, and I rushed it. I felt like it was going to go
off the glass actually. I felt like it had a chance.



Q. Nikki, with RanDee on the bench, you really did a nice job stepping up
along with Amy Loftus to keep this team in the game. Could you talk about the
role you played today, and your ability to keep this team in this game, and in
the lead for quite a while?



NIKKI HITCHENS: My biggest thing was to focus and finish all shots around the
basket, rebound and give my team the best opportunity to win this game. With
RanDee out, I felt like I just wanted to rebound hard and focus and be
concentrate around the basket.



Q. As you guys were executing and making plays, could you sense a growing
confidence as you guys were playing this game? You were still in the lead. Was
there a sense among the players on the court that you could keep this thing
going to the end and finish it out? Did you get a sense there was a growing
confidence?



NIKKI HITCHENS: I think everybody was confident at that point. I think our
defense helped us build confidence. I think our intensity, you know, really
helps us gain more confidence on offense.

_

JIM MILLER: Anything else for the student athletes? We'll let you two guys go
and open up the floor for questions directed to Coach Regina Miller.

_ 

Q. How tough is this knowing that your kids basically executed everything you
wanted them to do? You did a nice job against the zone, you didn't turn it
over that much until late in the game. You overcame the adversity of RanDee
being in foul trouble. How tough is this for you personally to know that your
kids did everything you wanted and you still came up short in a game of such
big magnitude?



COACH REGINA MILLER: Kind of tough to find the words because I really felt
like we competed hard. It was again a game to win. I felt like we had the
opportunity. We just didn't execute well enough down the stretch. You know, we
stumped them with a two-white defense. We trapped them a little bit, made them
spread out. They got some open looks and they missed them. We rebounded out of
our zone. We went to that late in the second half. That also struggled a
little bit of our run. But we had a couple of opportunities to make some
layups. We missed them around the basket. And you know, contact or not, it is
going to happen. You know, they let a lot go today. The officials -- it was 15
fouls to 14. It is not like it was 25 to 12. So, you know, you just got to
finish those plays and finish with the contact. I think obviously some calls
went against us late particularly on Marsh around the basket. She is so
athletic, she still jumped and got the rebound.



Q. (Inaudible question.)



COACH REGINA MILLER: We made our free throws. My philosophy again is you have
to make all free throws and layups. We missed to many layups. That is the only
way you can control the game. That is all you have in your control, and
rebounding the basket.



Q. I'm not that privy to the Women's NIT as I am to the Men's. Is your record
good enough to permit you to keep playing beyond today?



COACH REGINA MILLER: I haven't thought much about that. Our goal has been to
make it to the NCAA tournament. Last year we made a great run in the NIT. We
played in the championship game. The only thing we haven't done is win it. I
think in our program our ultimate goal year in and year out is to play in the
NCAA tournament. We felt confident today. If we could have beat the New Mexico
team, that anything could happen tomorrow. But you know, again, Steve, I
haven't thought much about it. I need to visit with our seniors and see how
they feel. You know, when you think about our team this year, we played with a
total different team than we were a year ago. Although we had four returning
starters back, the dynamics of this team totally changed without Sherry
McCracken. RanDee Henry became the person that teams really double, triple
team. Last year RanDee could bounce around, shoot threes, play a little bit in
touch because Sherry was the big sister and more of the tiger, so the dynamics
changed without her in the line-up. I have to evaluate and see where we are
and if we get that nod from the NIT, we will evaluate that. We'd be grateful
that we would have an opportunity to continue to play. But that is right now
the farthest from my mind.

_

JIM MILLER: Anything else for Coach Miller? Thank you, Coach Miller.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Don Flanagan](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13837)

### [Dionne Marsh](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14530)

### [Mandi Moore](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14527)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: Okay. We're joined by New Mexico head coach, Don Flanagan; student
athletes, No. 21, Mandi Moore; No. 33, Dionne Marsh. Coach, open with some
general comments, then we'll open it up for questions for the student
athletes.

_

COACH FLANAGAN: Congratulations to UNLV. What a great game they played. They
came with a great deal of determination and skill. Very difficult team for us
to play. They came here to win the game. I thought it was about as good a
college as I have seen this year. It was a great game. There was never much of
a difference scorewise between one team and another. I thought the end result
was pretty dramatic. A lot of fun for the part of the coach. Looking back at
the game, what I can remember of it, there was a lot of ups and downs. This
team has never given up. Although they have a lot of success, they are not
afraid to be down. They seem to respond when they are challenged. We did
respond quite well. And, you know, the ball bounced our way a couple of times,
maybe away from them a couple of times. I noticed our defense improved. I
thought Dionne played a great game offensively and Mandi gave us a great forty
minutes. That is the greatest effort that I have ever seen a player give for
forty minutes.



Q. Mandi, you looked pretty cool on those free throws. You are obviously used
to situations like that. Could you talk about that?



MANDI MOORE: When we played them at our place, it was close. After the
bonehead play I made by shooting it with 23 seconds left, I thought, Man, I
have got to come back. I said a prayer and He was with me and I made them.

_

JIM MILLER: Other questions?

_ 

Q. Did you notice they had not fixed the net when you shot the first free
throw, it was still all wadded up?



MANDI MOORE: No. That was the last thing on my mind. I was concentrating. I
was telling myself I can make these and I was a good free thrower.

COACH FLANAGAN: She upwinded it anyway.



Q. Go back to the shot you took that you would like to take back, I am sure?



MANDI MOORE: We got the rebound. For some odd reason, I thought we had more
than 30 seconds left. It doesn't make a difference. I shouldn't have shot it.
I was going to take it in and then I saw Henry there, I pulled up and babied
it. We got the rebound. I thought, Oh, my gosh, what have I done? I have
probably blown the game for us. I thought, Let's get back on defense. They
drove the lane on us and shot it. I don't think she hit the rim and we got the
rebound. It came back and that is when they fouled. I just thought I had 30
seconds or so left. As I let it go, I thought, That was the dumbest shot you
have taken.



Q. Dionne, would you talk about all the practice that you do during practice
for that 40-foot jump shot?



DIONNE MARSH: I have never even practiced it ever. I guess it was just lucky.
They said three seconds. As soon as they threw it in, I kind of forgot. All I
heard was the crowd yelling. I heard two. I threw it up, and it went in.



Q. Dionne, has it occurred to you that you are a freshman; you are not
supposed to be doing all this stuff?



DIONNE MARSH: Really, this team is really good about not focusing on what year
you are. It is basically on what you can do and how you help the team. Which
is one thing I like about the girls. They put us all in different situations.
I guess I am pretty good about what I do right now. I still have a lot of work
to do. All I will do is continue to work hard and be able to add something
else to my game next year.

_

JIM MILLER: Anything else for Mandi or Dionne? Okay, ladies, we'll let you go.

_ 

Q. I haven't seen your team play this year. So I am kind of curious, is your
constantly taking Dionne out of the game for long stretches a normal thing, or
was there something physically wrong with her that you felt you needed to rest
her longer? Were you concerned that it might impact the team's rhythm having
her on the bench for the stretches you had her today?



COACH FLANAGAN: There was a couple of questions in there. Let me -- first of
all, I think she has got a little touch of asthma, so she fatigues quickly. If
you noticed, I played Mandi forty minutes. If Dionne could go like Mandi does
for forty minutes, I am not substituting because she is getting tired. Usually
when she gets tired, she rests on defense. Offensively she seems to be able to
get the energy to play a little bit harder. But she is just learning on
defense. She is really learning on offense, too. She is one of those players
that is ambidextrous around the basket. When she jumps in the air, she's not
sure which hand she will shoot with. She is gifted. If she keeps working on
her game, she will be a great college player.



Q. Don, when Judy took that three, was that maybe a no-no, no good shot type
of thing?



COACH FLANAGAN: No. One of the things you don't want to do with players is
restrict their shot. Especially against a team like UNLV that is quick. You
will not always get a great look. If you get a look in transition, we are
shooting it. I just talked about that particular shot. The only concern I have
is that we need to have numbers. It can't be you are the Lone Ranger down
there and we don't have a chance to get a rebound. On that particular shot, I
thought it was a good chance to get a rebound. Absolutely she can take that
shot. We work on things like that. One of the things we are talking about is
open looks. Open look can come in your offense, it can come in transition.
That was a transition open look. A great shot by Judy. As far as if you
restrict players and give them too much rules about when to shoot, then there
is some decision-making processes that seem to hurt shooting percentages.



Q. Did you play more man today than in the other two games? I really can't
remember. I think you did. If so, why?



COACH FLANAGAN: That is a good question. I don't think we played more man than
we did the last time at home. We played them a little bit of man at home and
mostly zone away. They have a lot of people that can break it down with their
creative ability, individual ability. So, a zone seems to fit. They were
getting a little baseline, you know, they worked on it, you know you don't
have a lot of preparation timing here. We weren't cutting off that short
corner drive. Dionne was having a real serious problem with that. Jenny did a
good job with it, but Dionne couldn't cut that short corner drive-off. That
was the reason we played a little bit of man. I thought when RanDee Henry went
out that we could match up just a little bit better defensively in man.



Q. Don, three games, three three-point decisions, you said earlier in your
opening comment that UNLV is a difficult match-up for your team. Can you
expand on that as to why they give you problems and why these games are so
competitive?



COACH FLANAGAN: Of our five players, four of their players are quicker than
ours. So Dionne is the only one that can match up quickness-wise. They are
quicker. Their skill with the ball, ball-handling is quite good. I am
surprised that UNLV hasn't had more success. As far as I am concerned, they
are difficult to play, very difficult to defend. They get in your passing
lane. That may be a problem. One of our problems is not moving well without
the ball, not setting enough screens. I think people that set screens better
than we do have better luck against them. They are an outstanding team with
individual talent. I think they are capable of beating anybody at the
tournament. They just didn't beat us today.



Q. Chances are that every game you play the rest of the way will be like that.
You are not going to play any teams that you will beat twenty points or more.
Does it make you feel good?



COACH FLANAGAN: First of all, positive experience is very important for teams.
If we play well late in the game at this point, who knows? Obviously our next
game if we get fortunate enough to go to the NCAA tournament, it will be a
difficult competition. We have to maintain poise and character. I think this
team has that kind of character. I am real happy they had success today. One
of the reasons why I think they feel comfortable here is last year we had
success in this tournament. We played very well in this tournament. It helps
when 99 percent of the crowd is for you.



Q. Don, this was a very emotional game, a very physical game. How hard is it
for your kids to recover in 26 hours and play whoever wins that second game?



COACH FLANAGAN: Why, you know, years ago when we were in the WAC and we had to
win four games in four days, they should have rested during that day off. I
played a few people. Mandi might be tired. Knowing Mandi, she will respond to
any challenge. I am hoping when I go Utah there and watch Utah and BYU, I hope
they are knocking each other all over the place so we are on a even keel,
whoever wins it.

_

JIM MILLER: Anything else for Coach? Thank you.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Elaine Elliott](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15524)

### [Lana Sitterud](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16293)

### [Kim Smith](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14523)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: We're joined by University of Utah head coach, Elaine Elliott; No.
4, Kim Smith; and No. 32, Lana Sitterud. Coach, if you want to begin with some
opening comments, then we'll open it up for questions.

_

COACH ELLIOTT: Obviously, it is a good win for us, you know, a rivalry game.
They are usually wild affairs. And you know, I am happy. I am pleased with our
effort, pleased with the game. You know, just in general, it was probably
pretty big for us to get that game.

_

JIM MILLER: Questions for either Kim or Lana?

_ 

Q. Kim, what do you guys need to do better to beat these guys? They have
beaten you twice. What do you need to do better?



KIM SMITH: I don't think we have had a game against them this year where our
whole team has put in a good team performance. And that is all we are looking
for: to play hard and rebound hard against them.



Q. Do you think playing hard and rebounding hard is going to be the
difference?



KIM SMITH:  Well, we haven't done it yet, so I guess we'll find out.



Q. What about the three points in the first half?



LANA SITTERUD: Yes, it did.



Q. You were hitting a lot of them, Kim.



KIM SMITH: I was feeling it in the first half. They were sitting screens for
me. Everybody was feeling it in the first half. Of course that's a great way
to open up the came. And then in the second half, you know, we got it inside,
too. We didn't take too many, I don't think, which we tend to do when we feel
a little hot, so it was good.



Q. Do you feel like the edge you have on BYU is similar to the edge New Mexico
has on you in any way right now?



KIM SMITH: I wouldn't say anybody has an edge on anybody before the game
starts, unless it is mental. Our team is strong mentally. New Mexico doesn't
have an edge on us. I don't see any reason why they would have one. What
happened in the past is in the past. It is not something you carry with you in
the next game.

_

JIM MILLER: Any other questions for the student athletes?

_ 

Q. Elaine, I'll ask you the same question I asked them. What do you guys need
to do better as a team to beat these guys this time?



COACH ELLIOTT: Fairly similar to Kim in terms of, you know, we don't have a
lot of room for error. We don't have great depth, and so we need the kids that
we have all to pitch in. We can't get it done with a few contributions. If we
can't feel like when the game is over we sort of -- you know, if we said, boy,
our post had a good game, or, you know, Lana had a good game, you know, then
we were not going to get the W and that is why we didn't get the W the first
two. We can't beat them without all operating cylinders.



Q. Does that mean that you need the freshman and forwards to play better?



COACH ELLIOTT: That is correct.



Q. Just talk about the three-point shooting. They actually had more field
goals than you did. You had nine more three-point shots. They were early on
the clock. Is that your game plan, to shoot when you are open on those?



COACH ELLIOTT: If you are open you usually have a better chance. We are not
concerned about taking early or late shots. We are hoping to take shots we can
make. If we are shooting three points at any point in time, I hope they are
good looks and we are happy about that.

_

JIM MILLER: Anything else?

_ 

Q. They kind of shut down Kim the second half and Shona the whole game. Just
talk about the contributions of some of your players like Heidi and Perry and
some of those people that come through with some big shots?



COACH ELLIOTT: That is one of the things that has been consistent in our three
games against BYU. We had good overall performances in those games. Tonight
was the same. We got contributions off the bench. Camie and Shauna Brouillard
came off the bench and made a very good impact on the game. That is why we
have been successful in those terms. Those -- we had good team performance, I
think, in our match-ups against the Y.



Q. What are you going to say to get your team motivated to beat New Mexico?



COACH ELLIOTT: We want a good performance. That is what we go towards. That is
what we talk about. Those are the things that win games, not the kind of
things you like to write about. We just don't go there. We just try to
prepare.



Q. Congratulations. Do you think this year there is no doubt you are an NCAA
team?



COACH ELLIOTT: That is what I think, Mike. I just told somebody, I think I am
out of coaching if it doesn't work this year. I don't know what else you can
do.

_

JIM MILLER: Any questions for the coach?

_ 

Q. Do you feel like New Mexico and Utah deserve to get in?



COACH ELLIOTT: I absolutely do. New Mexico, that is the best depth in our
league. And that means they are the best team. Our kids have performed and
come away with a co-championship and are in the championship. They had just as
a successful a season. I see us as deserving as well.

_

JIM MILLER: Okay. Thanks, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 11, 2005

  

### [Daniel Cheesman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14528)

### [Jeff Judkins](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13839)

### [Kristen Kozlowski](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16294)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: All right. BYU Cougars head coach Jeff Judkins. Coach, if you want
to begin with some opening remarks.

_

COACH JUDKINS: You didn't butcher their names. Good job. I am real proud of my
team. We have had a great year. These young ladies have worked very hard. I
think sometimes in life you want things too bad and you just work too hard and
try too hard. I just appreciate the wonderful effort these young ladies did
for me this year. I can only think of one bad practice in the whole year. I
know we're excited. Hopefully we'll be able to go somewhere. We hope the NCAA
will feel sad because they stiffed this conference last year with one. If not,
we'll go to the NIT and play hard and do it. I appreciate my seniors. Danielle
and Kali and Julie have been with me for four years. Christian came after one
year at Boise. I appreciate their leadership and the wonderful job they did
for me in these years. It will be tough to see them go. They built a wonderful
foundation for this program. You have to give Utah credit. They have smart
players. Those kids play a lot of basketball internationally. They have
wonderful opportunities. You can see that on the court. I know we're excited
about the rest of the season and our future at BYU.

_

JIM MILLER: Thank you, Coach. Questions directed to the student athletes.

_ 

Q. Either one of you two, was there any similarities to the other two games
with Utah that crept into this game today?



DANIELLE CHEESMAN: The thing that I noticed when we're on defense, the Utah
Utes, they do a good job in taking what we give them. You know, if they have a
bad match-up, they go to that person. They have done that in all their games.
They read the defense really well. That is one thing that hurt us a little.

KRISTEN KOZLOWSKI: I think in each game they were able to hit shots. In each
defensive position we give them open shots. That is just how we played it.
They were able to hit them. They did a good job with that, finding the open
shot.



Q. You got a lot of the inside baskets especially in the second half. Utah
will normally give you the 3-pointer. To what do you attribute the success
inside?



KRISTEN KOZLOWSKI: I think we got in the second half a lot more movement. We
did a good job of finding our big man inside and looking at decking a little
bit more.

_

JIM MILLER: Other questions for the student athletes? Ladies, we'll let you
go. Questions for Coach.

_ 

Q. Jeff, if you don't mind, if you do, just say no, could you give a couple of
keys for championship games? Who has to do what?



COACH JUDKINS: I think New Mexico matches up with Utah very well. In fact, it
is a funny situation in this league. I talked with some of the coaches at New
Mexico, and they would rather play Utah in the semifinals. We would rather
play Vegas. Part of it is we match up better with Vegas, they match up better
with Utah. Somebody can guard Kim Smith and not give her any easy baskets. And
they have a very good inside game with Marsh. To me, that is Utah's weakness
defensively is their defensive post presses. And so what they do is they just
slap everybody in the paint against us, you can't do that against New Mexico
because Letz and Montgomery and Arndt can all hit shots. They can't do that.
The second half of your question was why did you hit the ball inside better?
Part of it is, I had my line-up where I had my best shooters in there. They
had to guard Ambrosia and they had to guard Kali and they had to guard
Sullivan. That opens it up. It is sad because Johnsen is the best defender in
this league. And she brings so much to this team. And so it's hard not to have
her on the forward. It will be a great meeting between her and me at the end
of the year. Her goal will be to shoot five thousand shots every day. Then
hopefully she will come in here and be able to hit those shots. It should be a
great game. I would give the edge to New Mexico and the reason for that is
they have beaten them twice. They have a good mental part of it. Secondly, I
think we beat Utah. I think we were physical with them, we beat them up. It
should be a great game. I think both teams do deserve to go to the NCAA
tournament. I hope we don't get stiffed like last year.



Q. Is your team mentally intimidated by Utah?



COACH JUDKINS:  It looks on paper that we are. If we start boxing I would put
my money on my team. I think sometimes mentally you think you can't do certain
things. I remember the days when I was coaching at Utah we couldn't beat
Kentucky. I don't care what we did, it's just they had our number. And I think
Utah this year with the players that they have and their situation, I think
they know that they can beat us and I think sometimes we look at it maybe we
just try a little bit too hard, kind of what I said earlier. That is where I
will take this tape and I'm going to take my younger kids that come back next
year and try to tell them, you have got to be smart. Utah is not going to beat
themselves. You have got to take it and you have got to execute to really beat
them. And that is one of the times that we have beat them in the tournament or
whatever I have coached against Coach Elliott, so many of the teams played
well. Erika Ford, Jennifer Lightner, Melanie Pearson, she's going to give you
shots. She's got the depth. And that is how she plays defense. We just have to
take advantage of that better than we did today.



Q. Your best player Julie plays twenty minutes of that game. Was that because
of mostly fouls or other things?



COACH JUDKINS:  Mostly fouls. She got two fouls. I wanted to try to save her.
This is Julie's hardest part of her career. She got a foul -- or she got a
cheap foul, that she thought, and the next play down when I pull her out, she
gets another foul and so now she's got three fouls. Now I try to get her out
quick enough and that really put her in a bad situation. Then she gets her
fourth on the moving screen which she shouldn't have done anyway. Then she
gets her fifth. For some reason, I think she wants it so bad she just can't
let the game come to her sometimes.



Q. Just real quick, on the three-point shooting, they got 11 of them, you get
two. And they have all the open shots there. And that was the kind of
difference in the game; they have 11 out of 24. Just talk about the three-
point shooting and how key that was.



COACH JUDKINS: First of all, Kim Smith was on a roll the first half. I think
some of the shots she hit, they were -- I mean, a hand in the face and she
made it, a couple of the other ones they had. It was just a good job of them
spreading it out. They had a difficult time attacking our triangle too. They
hit some shots and that's what we gave up. When we cut it down to I think
eight or seven, you know, they had a hard time hitting it. Carlsen hit some
big shots tonight. You've got to give her a lot of credit to come off the
bench not to play that many minutes. Kim Smith is a good player. She knows how
to do things to get her team open. Sitterud is a very confident lady. She's
either going to shoot you in the game or shoot you out of the game. When you
have got Camie Allen hitting three pointers and number twelve hitting three
pointers, her first three-pointer of the year. I am surprised Hanchett didn't
bank one in for a 3-pointer. You watch tomorrow, they won't be able to hit
nothing probably. They are a good team. They will be smart enough. They will
get the ball inside. They are very well coached. They really execute well. One
turnover in the first half. We didn't put a lot of pressure on, they just let
it come very, you know, very easy for their team.



Q. Considering the difference between this year and last year, are you
satisfied with the progress this group has made? Do you feel like you are an
element away from competing with Utah or is this the group that can get it
done for you?



COACH JUDKINS: I think we have as good as players in this league. Johnsen is a
sophomore. Brosia is a Junior. I probably lost my second best player to a
injury this year. I have got two young freshmen just learning this game. I
think it will be good in Riley and Mary Martha. I mean, I am excited about the
future. I've got another girl that is red-shirting, sitting out, six-foot-
three, a physical type of player. Then we had a great recruiting class. So I
signed a very good point guard and a very athletic girl who can defend and get
it to the basket. We are excited about our future. I can't wait until those
two graduate at Utah. It will be a nice feeling some day. But I think we will
be more competitive. I think there are some players that have talent that can
really blossom for us.



Q. Do you already have a gift in mind for Shauna (inaudible) when they are
gone?



COACH JUDKINS:  No. They are very good. They are just so seasoned. I mean,
they played some games internationally. They are way ahead of the United
States. Way ahead of us. I mean, just look at us right now. No matter what, I
can't send Ambrosia to play international ball. She could not make the United
States national team because there are so many players here. Canadians can do
that. Those guys can play all these different teams. That is something
hopefully the United States will see that and do better. What is wrong with
having five, six teams for these ladies to have opportunities?

_

JIM MILLER: Any other questions? Thanks very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Melinda Johnsen](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14525)

### [Jeff Judkins](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13839)

### [Julie Sullivan](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16290)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: We'll begin with BYU head coach Jeff Judkins; student athletes No.
14, Julie Sullivan; 35, Melinda Johnsen. Coach, if you want to open with some
opening remarks and we'll open it to questions for the student athletes.

_

COACH JUDKINS: It's nice to be here. It's nice to be able to win a game that
close. I give Colorado State a lot of credit. They played very hard tonight.
They played as good as I've seen them. They had an outstanding game. You try
to take their inside game away, and when Hunter is hitting those shots, it's
very difficult. It seemed like we kind of went in spurts and they went in
spurts. Both teams were emotionally high for this game. It's tough to beat
somebody three times in a row, and Chris has done a great job with that team
really, preparing for our game. I thought offensively he did some things we
haven't seen in a long time. We did a pretty good job of adjusting. That's why
I've got Melinda up here. Melinda was a key part of the game defensively. She
did a great job on Hunter the last five, six minutes. Every basket she scored
was head in the face. I'm real proud of the team. We've lost a lot of games
like this where the game has been close and we haven't executed and made the
plays, and I'm just glad these guys stuck together. We had to make some
defensive stops, and we knew that they could do it. Hopefully we can continue
this tournament.

_

JIM MILLER: Questions for the student athletes.

_ 

Q. Melinda, on that last play, the set up, Ambrosia for the three, is that
kind of a set play or do you get the credit for that?



MELINDA JOHNSEN: I wasn't set up for that. I knew the shot clock was going
down, we had six seconds. I knew we could get a better shot than what I had.
I'm just glad Ambrosia was sitting there.

COACH JUDKINS: It wasn't great coaching?

MELINDA JOHNSEN: Great coaching. Yeah, it was awesome.



Q. Julie, could you talk about how you handled the pressure that came after
you on the dribble about three-quarters court and some of the adjustments that
you tried to make with bringing in some help, another point guard?



JULIE SULLIVAN: To tell you the truth, I didn't really recognize that it was
pressure because I've handled that all year, so I don't think -- I think we
were really prepared for it from our pre-season games. You know, we played a
lot of tough teams that got in our shorts. To tell you the truth, I don't
really even recognize the pressure.



Q. Julie, could you talk about last year? You missed a couple of free throws
and you were upset and this year you came back and made them. How good was
that redemption for you?



JULIE SULLIVAN: Knew that question was coming, because as soon as I missed
them I thought about last year's. I knew I was going to get fouled again
because I wanted the ball in my hands. I knew I was going to make my second
pair of free throws. But it did cross my mind and I kicked myself in the butt
for it.

_

JIM MILLER: Ladies, we'll let you go and open it up for questions for the
coach.

_ 

Q. Can you just talk about the shot Ambrosia, she hit a couple big threes for
you tonight. It just seems like she's not afraid to shoot in very key
situations.



COACH JUDKINS: She's very confident, sometimes maybe a little bit too
confident. She took the one shot she missed kind of quick on the clock. I
said, Bro, I think we can get a better shot than that. She believes when she's
open that that's the best shot she can get. She has the confidence. Tonight I
believe we proved we have the deepest bench in the league with both Kubic and
her, and I'm very fortunate to have her because Ambrosia can score in so many
different ways, and Kubic the first half did so many good things for us when
Danielle was trying to score. It's nice for a coach to really have that. It's
tough because you have to balance those minutes and a lot of players like to
play a lot, but as long as you give them opportunities and you're positive
with them and you let them understand that winning is the most important
thing, it seems to work out for you. Bro has hit that shot a lot in practice
and she's hit it in big situations. As Melinda said, she had six seconds and
she saw Bro open and that's how much confidence she had. We tried a little
play to get the ball to the basket and Colorado State did a good job of
closing that off. That's where I was so proud of the team is they let the
offense, whatever the defense did in that situation, they just let it come to
them, and that's where we've matured as a team.



Q. Could you talk about Julie's performance? It just must really feel good as
a coach when you're over there and you know the ball is in her hands down the
stretch and she's not going to make mistakes with it?



COACH JUDKINS: You know, I've been real lucky to have her. Hopefully Tiari
will take that over next year. Julie is a competitor. She remembers that foul
shot, and she remembers a lot of situations, and I think she has fought
through that this whole season, and I was just proud of her getting up there
and sticking those foul shots once she had to and not being afraid to really
do it. I wouldn't want it to get in her way in a tough situation because
she'll do whatever she has to. She'll go through a brick wall. I think she's
been a great example of what hard work is, having a baby, dealing with that,
having her ACL and then being able to come back for senior year and having the
kind of career she's having now, I'm very happy for her. She feels good about
herself, and that's what the main part of basketball is all about.



Q. Could you talk about your adjustments on your defense? They did have some
success inside. You went to a zone and then was it Hunter just on or did she
get lost in the zone?



COACH JUDKINS: She hurts more in the man-to-man, a little pick-and-roll
action. We tried to cover down, and they kicked it, and Colorado State did a
good job of making the extra pass for her. We just didn't rotate quick enough.
Johnsen the last eight minutes of the game, every one she scored in the end
was a hand in the face, and when players get that going, they get to feel like
that, it's really hard to stop them. I thought Melinda did a great job.
Colorado State's inside game is very scary, and Dennett is athletic and she
can score, and Thomas is a good shooter, so you try and take that away and
you're going to give something up. Tonight Hunter took advantage of it.



Q. Considering the start and everything, you know, you win two games against
CSU and I know your players are dying to play Utah again. Was that start, even
though it came back and tied up, was that big to get off to that lead?



COACH JUDKINS: Yeah, it was. We came out with a lot of energy and we kind of
burned the cylinders fast. Julie got tired, and so I had to pull her out just
because of that, and we were going. My wife says to me all the time, don't
pull out your team when they're going good, let them keep playing, so I've
tried to take that advice but Julie was really tired and so was Cheesman and
Kozlowski. It's going to be a great challenge. Utah is a very good team, and
as they got voted MVPs of our league we've got to do a good job on Shona and
Kim. I think my team is looking forward to this game. We've been talking about
it, and hopefully we can play one of our best games.



Q. How important is it to have time off tomorrow before a Friday game in a
tournament like this?



COACH JUDKINS: It's big-time, really. For us, we had a hard-fought game and
Utah did not have to battle as hard as we did, and part of that is our own
fault not doing well in the conference. Having that rest will give us a little
bit more time to kind of think a little bit about some things and stay off our
legs. I really believe we have one of the deepest benches. I think New Mexico
and us are probably the two deepest. I mean, it's to an advantage if you can
get to the third game. We've always seemed to play better the second night, so
we'll see what happens Friday. It'll be a good opportunity for us to just rest
a little bit and hopefully watch some things that we can do better, and it
gives me some time just to rest, too, a little bit.

_

JIM MILLER: Thanks, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Randee Henry](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16286)

### [Regina Miller](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13838)

### [Brittney Thomas](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14521)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: We'll begin with UNLV head coach Regina Miller. If you want to
begin with some opening comments, then we'll open it up for questions for the
players.

_

COACH MILLER: Sure. It was a battle. It always seems to a battle every time we
play against Wyoming, really any team in the league. Again, it gets back to
anyone can win this tournament who's able to execute. I thought that we
started the game fairly strong, and then we were able to go on a run. I
thought it was from the intensity of our defense, and that triggered a lot of
our fast break opportunities, and then the half court offense, I thought, we
executed fairly well, and then they went to a zone, and we became passive. You
just don't want to play passive against a standard 2-3 zone. For the remainder
of the half, they really changed the tempo of the game. We started to play
more half court. We're a full-court team. Again, a lot of that is created from
our defense. Their zones slowed the tempo down, we didn't execute against it.
We needed to get the ball in certain areas, and not until after the half were
we able to make those adjustments. We anticipated them playing zone all of the
second half, and they did, and I thought we did a better job of getting the
ball to the middle, trying to hit the corner some and I thought Brittney
Thomas hit a couple of big shots down the stretch.

_

JIM MILLER: At this point we'll open it up for questions directed to the
student athletes, we have No. 20, Brittney Thomas and No. 22, RanDee Henry.

_ 

Q. Can you talk a little bit about those two three-point shots that you hit,
extremely huge and kept the momentum going for your team?



BRITTNEY THOMAS: Early in the game I was a little off. Mentally I wasn't all
the way 100 percent there, and hitting 3s, hitting shots, is what I bring to
the team, and I just relaxed and put it down just like it was another shot in
practice and it came out good.



Q. You guys have been pretty up and down all season. You've had some really
great moments and not so great moments. What's the difference? What do you do
better when you're playing well and winning?



RANDEE HENRY: I think pretty much everything is just on us. We know what we're
capable of as a team, what we're good at, what are our strengths. So just
pretty much coming into this tournament, we couldn't sit back on what happened
in the past. You know, this is a whole new start. It's pretty much everybody
starting over with new records, so we just wanted to come in and focus on the
games that we had at task and take them one at a time and not relinquish
things from the past.



Q. Could either one or both of you talk about the rematch you're going to have
with UNM?



BRITTNEY THOMAS: I'll start. It's going to be a game. We took them on at home,
beat them by 3, went there, lost by 3. It's going to come down to who
executes, and we're planning on it being us overall. It's going to be a fight,
though.

RANDEE HENRY: It's definitely going to be a game. It's about playing smart and
doing what we do best because we know it's going to be a game that we have to
compete and every single position is going to count.



Q. Ladies, what was it about the zone that had you guys kind of off there in
the first half when they switched to it?



RANDEE HENRY: I think initially that they pushed so far up on Sheena, they
were really worried about her penetrating their zone because she does it so
well. So we really had I to sit back and find the open areas, and it's
disgusting, and time-outs because they were leaving the middle wide open
because they were pushing out so far trying to trap, and we really made the
adjustment at halftime, but it was just initially our coaches informed us
where the open spots really were in the first half and we were able to get
some towards the end of the half, and that's where we were able to make that
adjustment at halftime.

_

JIM MILLER: Ladies, you can be excused, ladies. We'll now open it up for
questions for Coach Miller.

_ 

Q. Coach Miller, Ashley Elliott, the last shot she took in the last five
minutes was the three-pointer that rimmed out at the buzzer, did you do
anything special, really try to limit her touches?



COACH MILLER: Well, our focus on Ashley has been all year when she gives the
ball up, really make her work to get it back. She's the type of player who's
going to play 40 minutes, has played 40 minutes all season, so she's well-
conditioned. I think as Ashley goes, Wyoming goes. I think she's a great
player. She's someone that we focus on defensively. We didn't really want to
double on her because there are other three-point shooters on the team. Hanna
does a nice job for Wyoming as well as Hicks can shoot the three with their
foot set, and we know Taylor is a penetrator. I thought at times we got too
close to her with the dribble and allowed her to penetrate past. We knew a lot
of their scheme was dribble, kick it to the three point with their feet set,
and Ashley heard us. At that point in time in the game we thought that we had
worn her down a little bit, and we are a fairly good-conditioned team, and
your shot is a little different when you're tired, and if you don't -- usually
shots that rim -- go in and out and stay down, you're not using your legs, and
she was a little tired at that point, so advantage UNLV. It worked out for us.



Q. Could you talk about the strides that Wyoming has made under Coach
Legerski? Obviously they seemed to be going in a real positive direction.



COACH MILLER: Tremendous strides. I have a great deal of respect. I think when
we prepared for Wyoming, we think of playing against Utah in some ways because
they run similar offense, a lot of motion cutting, a lot of moving without the
ball, a lot of almost screens, something that we've done has been to trap some
of those and taking people out of their flow offensively. I think Joe has done
a tremendous job moving the program forward. I felt like since he's taken
over, players play to their strengths. They're running their offense with a
purpose in mind and they know who the scorers are, who's going to get screens
and who's going to get rebounds, and I'm not sure if that was the case prior
to, so you can tell the big difference is going to be competitive day in and
day out. I would think in the league we're probably the team that's most
similar, especially when they go with a small lineup.



Q. Your team has not been a great free-throw shooting team, but not bad.
Tonight you really shot lights out from the line. Is there any explanation as
to why?



COACH MILLER: I have this philosophy that you have to finish free throws --
finish lay-ups and make all free throws. That's something that we talk about
in practice. We shoot a lot of free throws. We don't run when you miss free
throws. I think sometimes coaches have a tendency to do that and I think it
reinforces the negative. We just shoot more. We had a game against BYU a
couple games ago and we couldn't make a free throw, 6 for 15, lost by 3. The
game before we were 14 for 15, shot 93 percent. Again, I think a lot of it is
confidence. I think you can win and lose a lot of ball games by making and/or
missing free throws. It hurt us against BYU, it helped us today.



Q. I just wanted to ask you about the match-up with New Mexico, and I guess
what it takes to beat them. Obviously there have been some close games this
season.



COACH MILLER: Yeah, most of our games have been close. I mean, New Mexico is
playing well, they've played consistent, they've been fairly healthy all year
and they're playing with a lot of confidence. I'm not going to give you the
magic plan, but in some way we have to disrupt their flow. I think a key
player for them who has played well has been Marsh. She's been a little bit of
an X factor, even as a freshman. She posts deep. She has the ability to shoot
that little turnaround jumper and she's a tremendous offensive rebounder and
she rebounds the ball defensively for them. She's probably to me their most
aggressive player. If they come out and play a little zone, I would anticipate
they're going to play a zone, we'll have to attack it and attack it with
confidence. I think overall New Mexico is a finesse type of team with the
exception of Marsh, and we have to play to their strengths, and I think the
team that does that the best in their style of play is going to win this game.
It will be a battle. I anticipate that it will be a battle.



Q. Your kids thrive off the UNM crowd. They seem to be the only team in the
pit that can take it for 40 minutes. Usually teams come in and love it for 30
minutes and hate it the last ten.



COACH MILLER: It's a tough play to play, in the pit. I've always used the
analogy that they're red, we're red, their offense. Just block out what they
might say against you. We shouldn't hear that anyway. But when you look in the
stands there's a lot of red, so we think of them as rebels instead of Lobos. I
think if you focus in on what's happening on the court, you know, you are not
distracted as to what's going on off the court and around you. It's a great
atmosphere to play in. If you're a player or competitive in any way, and I
know that New Mexico has a lot of fans here for this tournament, you thrive
off of that. You know, you thrive off the fact that, hey, we've built this,
people are here to watch us play, now let's go out and perform. I think if
you're a competitor you thrive off of that. You do not let it distract you.

_

JIM MILLER: Thanks, Coach.

_

End of FastScriptsÃ�Â¢Ã¯Â¿Â½Ã�Â¦.

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Lauren Henderson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14524)

### [Ardie McInelly](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13836)

### [Jacki Novak](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16289)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: From the Air Force Academy, head coach Ardie McInelly; No. 25,
Lauren Henderson; and No. 44, Jacki Novak. Coach, we'll begin with you if you
want to make opening comments and then we'll open it up for questions for the
student athletes.

_

COACH MCINELLY: Well, we asked one thing of our players tonight, and that was
to come out and play their hardest, give it 110 percent effort, and I think
our players did that. We struggled in the first half offensively. We didn't
shoot very well, but our players hung in there, and they just continued to
work on defense. The second half, I think that we came out, and if we look at
the amount of points scored in the second half, they still outscored us 24-30,
but we did much better offensively, and defensively we held them to shooting
39 percent and I take a lot of pride in that because I think University of
Utah is an extremely good player. When you have co-players on your team as
Shona Thorburn and Kim Smith, they've got a lot of things to work with, and
Elaine Elliott has certainly done a nice job. I will say this, that I admire
Elaine Elliott. She and I graduated from the same institution, that was Boise
State. She was leaving Boise State as I was entering so I never did get to
play with her, but she was always someone that I looked up to, and I think
she's certainly done a wonderful job. She's helped me become a better coach. I
just know that our players played against a pretty good team today, and when
we competed. I'm extremely proud of them. I wish it wouldn't end right now,
but we've got a lot of youth on our team. We only lose one junior, and most of
the people that played on our team were all freshmen and sophomores, as I have
sitting here. Lauren Henderson is a freshman and Jacki Novak is a sophomore.
There's some good things to come from the Air Force Academy and I'm looking
forward to next year already.

_

JIM MILLER: At this point, questions for the student athletes.

_ 

Q. For the players, talk about defending the three-point shot. Utah made a lot
of threes tonight. Why was that such a problem area for you guys?



LAUREN HENDERSON: Well, when we were transitioning back on defense, sometimes
we got confused where all the players were, and they ended up having a lot of
uncontested threes. That's something we've been trying to work on this season,
and we're definitely going to get better for next season.



Q. Jacki, do you want to answer the same question?



JACKI NOVAK: Same, I agree. I guess we were getting back on defense and we
were picking out people. It seemed like a lot of times we were missing a
couple -- offensive rebound on us and we'd kick it out with an uncontested
shot. It seemed like all their shots they made were actually uncontested.



Q. Certainly this game seemed to be a little more competitive than the last
two times you played Utah. What was difficult for you about the match-up this
year with Utah and what was different about tonight's game than the two
previous?



JACKI NOVAK: I think the difference between tonight's game and the difference,
we worked so hard . I haven't seen our team come out that hard all season
long. We played hard, but everyone was giving it their all, and that made a
huge difference, and watch out next time. It's going to be even a better game.



Q. When you're trying to beat a team like that, I'm sure maybe you're not
noticing, but do you sort of see Kim Smith and Shona Thorburn and say we can
play at that level at some point, we're a growing program?



LAUREN HENDERSON: Oh, definitely. You know, we're really young, and we have a
lot of dedicated people who are going to get out in the post-season and off-
season and just lift weights, get stronger to where we can push at those big
teams like that. We're all going to work really hard so where we can compete
with those girls.

_

JIM MILLER: Ladies, you're excused. We'll open it up now for questions for
Coach.

_ 

Q. Your top two scorers tonight went 1 for 16 combined from the field. You
probably needed a few more shots from them in the first half. Is that a fair
assessment?



COACH MCINELLY: Well, I think that a couple of the players from the University
of Utah, both Deanne Hanchett and Jessica Perry, every time Alecia Steele got
the ball, they troubled on her. She just didn't get the shots and the open
looks that she normally gets. I credit that to Elaine Elliott and her scouting
and stopping one of our high point scorers. I think that's something that we
have to continue to work on. We need to expand Alecia's repertoire as far as
her post moves and being able to extend her shot selection, as well. It was
due to their defense as well as us not being able to -- with Alecia. I think
with Letricia Castillo, I think she pressed a little bit. She took some shots
where she really wasn't open, tried to force the issue. Those two went out and
played their hearts out, and I can't fault them. We just need to work on a lot
of things during the off-season, especially our shooting. We'd like to be able
to shoot as well as Utah and New Mexico.



Q. Can you just reflect a little bit on this season and any steps that you
feel like your program might have made? I mean, Elaine was in here earlier,
and to quote her accurately, she said that she feels like Air Force is going
to make a difference in this league in the next couple years. Do you feel like
you're close to that?



COACH MCINELLY: Well, I do. I think my staff has done an exceptional job in
recruiting, and you can tell by the youth on our team that we're getting more
athletic, and now we just have to improve on our skills. I think it's all due
to our recruiting and the people who have been here and the support of our
administration to allow us to go out and go all over at least the Midwest and
the West to try to find players. I think that we've seen a lot of improvement
this year. I wish we could have won a little bit more games. We lost two
overtime games earlier. We had some close games here during our season, the
conference season, but we're heading in the right direction. As a coaching
staff and as players and as administration, we know that we're just going to
-- we have to stay positive. We have to look forward to the future and we have
to continue to try to just continue bringing in young athletes and young
ladies that can help with our program, and that's what we're doing.



Q. Do you think Kim and Shona will go down as two of the outstanding players
in this conference?



COACH MCINELLY: Oh, I do. I mean, they've already made a name for themselves.
They're only juniors, and they're Co-Players of the Year. They've had a lot of
experience, not only at University of Utah but playing for the Canadian
National Team, and that bodes well for the University of Utah, bodes well for
them as when they graduate they will go on and play in the WNBA. It's nice to
have players like that in our conference, and I know that other teams, we look
at who made the All-Conference Team. I'm sure it was close in many areas. I
mean, Ashley Elliott, she's a great player for University of Wyoming. I think
that Lindsey Arndt, Mandi Moore, Dionne Marsh, there are good players on all
of the teams, and Elaine happens to have two of the best, and I do think that
should they go to the NCAA, think that -- you say, well, should, I hope that
two of our teams get to go to the NCAA and I hope it would be University of
Utah and New Mexico. I hope they both get bids to go because they're certainly
both deserving.

_

JIM MILLER: Thanks, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Don Flanagan](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13837)

### [Mandi Moore](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14527)

### [Jenny Shetters](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14519)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: Okay, we'll begin with opening comments from New Mexico coach Don
Flanagan.

_

COACH FLANAGAN: First of all, I thought San Diego State played a tough game,
never gave up. Played hard for 40 minutes. We want to congratulate them. They
played very hard. Everything was contested, passing lanes, position. They
played extremely hard. We just shot pretty well. We tried to keep the floor
spaced so that we could get opportunities on one-on-one situations, reversing
the ball and setting lots of screens. They were switching lots of screens so
every time we set a screen we'd dive. That seemed to work a little bit, and I
thought our pressure defense started to allow them to not run their offense as
effectively as they wanted to.

_

JIM MILLER: We'll open it up for questions for the student athletes. As I
said, identify yourself and media outlet, and we'll let you go ahead and make
questions for the student athletes.

_ 

Q. Jenny, obviously this isn't the last game for you, but how does it feel to
have a game like this to kind of go out on as a senior?



JENNY SHETTERS: I think everybody wants to end their career on a high note. I
have struggled a little bit in the past, and I've finally, I think, learned to
just let everything go and just play basketball. It's not really that hard.
It's a game that's supposed to be fun. So I'm really glad that I started off
the tournament on a high note, not just for me, but for my team to dominate
the way we did in the first game. I think it was really important.



Q. Dionne, you got in foul trouble early and then you got in foul trouble
early again. Were you beginning to think your debut was going to have a five-
minute spurt?



COACH FLANAGAN: I was kind of surprised, but most of my fouls were offensive
today, so I guess I wasn't being more careful with what I needed to do. I was
a little surprised. I usually don't foul too much during the games, but I
ended up doing pretty well and we still won, so that's all that matters.



Q. Mandi, can you talk about the next game, either Wyoming or UNLV? Can you
talk about those match-ups and what that means for y'all?



MANDI MOORE: I don't know if this is on. As far as -- they're both tough
teams. We're going to have to play well no matter who wins. They just came off
of playing Wyoming and they played us tough in third place. We started off the
tournament on a pretty good note, and I think that we're only going to play
better from here. I don't guess it really matters who we get matched up with.
I think we probably match up a little bit better with Wyoming, but I think
we're ready to play either.

_

JIM MILLER: We'll go ahead and open it up for questions for Coach Flanagan.

_ 

Q. Don, is it fair to say that if you were worried about Dionne's foul trouble
that Jenny pretty much took care of it?



COACH FLANAGAN: Yeah, you know, I was a little concerned with replacing the
five position. It's not a position that we have a great deal of depth in.
Don't ask me why I went to Jenny, but I did, and she responded right away and
scored right away, and I'm really happy for her. This year has been a little
bit of a struggle for her, and I think if she can play this tournament well, I
think she's going to feel like this was a terrific success this year for her.
She struggled a little bit about confidence, not with ability, and I'm happy
to be her be successful.



Q. I think 24 of your 31 were from within three feet, so you obviously did a
great job spacing and getting those one-on-ones. You assumed you had match-up
issues that you could exploit in there, but did it happen even better than you
might have thought?



COACH FLANAGAN: I thought it was going to be a closer game. I thought it was
going to be pretty close. Spacing was an issue that we talked about. We wanted
to -- and I think we made a couple adjustments that hurt them a little bit,
but as far as pressuring the ball and pressure in passing lanes, I think San
Diego State does that better than anyone else. At least that game there, we
did a great job, and I have to compliment our players because under that
pressure I thought we were pretty effective. We were trying to get one-on-one
match-ups down low and get the ball in, and sometimes you hurt your passers
when you do that. We turned it over too much. We needed to reverse the ball a
little better. I kept sending people in and they kept doing a nice job of
moving without the ball annd getting open opportunities Late in the clock we
were looking inside.



Q. Just to follow up, I believe you did go to Jana first when Dionne got her
second. Did you just feel maybe Jenny was the answer?



COACH FLANAGAN: Jana and Lindsey both were a little bit jumpy. They seemed to
be -- something about their footwork scared me a little bit. They were trying
to be a little bit too quick, and that appeared to me to be a little bit of
nervousness and maybe a little bit of anxiousness. Jenny seemed relaxed. She
probably figured I'm not going to play, I'll just sit back here and relax, and
I gave her an opportunity and she went in and played relaxed and did a very
nice job.

_

JIM MILLER: Thanks, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Elaine Elliott](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15524)

### [Kim Smith](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14523)

### [Shona Thorburn](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16288)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: We're joined by University of Utah head coach Elaine Elliott;
student athletes No. 4, Kim Smith; No. 10, Shona Thorburn. We'll start with
you, Coach, if you could just open with some opening remarks and then we'll
open up some questions for the student athletes.

_

COACH ELLIOTT: Well, I thought it was a good first game. I think Air Force
does some things really well and they're really committed to the hustle plays,
and I think that's what makes them so tough. They did a really good job on the
offensive boards the first half. We did a better job of trying to shut that
down a little bit in the second half. Just trying to get going, feel
comfortable and feel like you can maybe improve your play each day as the
tournament goes, and that's what we'll try to get done. I really think that
Air Force has a nice club and I've told her so and I think they've done really
well and they're going to make a difference in this league in the next couple
of years.



Q. Kim, what was it from your perspective that was allowing Air Force to do so
well in that rebounding battle, particularly in the first half?



KIM SMITH: They were just going harder than we were, I think. We weren't
pushing them back and they weren't chasing the balls as hard as they were, and
that was what we tried to change in the second half, and I think we did a
better job at times.



Q. Either one of you, can you talk about how difficult it is to play a team
you've beaten twice already this year and trying to get up for the game?



SHONA THORBURN: It's easy to get up for a game in a conference tournament. Any
team we play, come across, it's very easy to get up for any game here, so
that's not something we need to worry about I don't think.



Q. For either of you, the three-point shooting was so strong and high
percentage. I'm just wondering, maybe Kim in particular, how many threes
you'll put up in a practice or after practice or in a pre-game?



KIM SMITH: The number? I couldn't tell you. I mean, I work out after practices
with the coach and just a rebounder or manager and just put up some extra
shots every day. Your extra time in the gym is always going to pay off. That's
always how I've played and how I've thought. It's starting to, and our whole
team, we all put up extra time in the gym and we try and get up more shots.

_

JIM MILLER: Ladies, you can be excused. At this point we'll open it up to
questions for Coach Elliott.

_ 

Q. How much if at all are you really gearing toward hoping to meet New Mexico
again in that championship game? Do you think that far?



COACH ELLIOTT: No.



Q. What do you need to improve on for the next game over what you did tonight
because you'll have a much better opponent, whoever it is?



COACH ELLIOTT: I really feel like we sort of kicked in and our play has
improved each game. I think in any kind of conference tournament, a three-game
set like this, you're going to have a game, if not two, you hope not two
certainly, but there's going to be a game in there that you're going to have
to gut out, and if you're going to win it all, you're going to play well, but
you're probably not going to sit and think after three games that every one
was your best game. You have to be okay with that and step on the floor and
gut out the next play, do what it takes to gut through those times, whenever
they hit, and hope by the end you're playing your best.

_

JIM MILLER: Thanks, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Ashley Elliott](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14522)

### [Joe Legerski](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13841)

### [Hanna Zavecz](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16287)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: Coach, we'll let you begin if you want to just make some opening
comments.

_

COACH LEGERSKI: It was one of those ball games that we've had with UNLV all
year and we ended up defeating them by three at our place, they defeated us by
four and then they ended up getting us again today by five, but all three ball
games were possession-by-possession type ball games, and we just need to make
a few more plays than what we were able to finish up with today. To start the
game, to be down by 13, I give credit to a young group of players that refused
to give in and make a ballgame out of this, and for that I'm very happy for
them and pleased for myself that this team is developing that kind of
attitude.



Q. This is for both of you. Do you feel like when the game is tied a couple
times late that one of those shots goes that kind of turns it around,
sometimes you just need to lead to go from there?



ASHLEY ELLIOTT: I think definitely if we would have hit one of those threes it
would have changed the momentum. We were fighting back the whole time, but we
just weren't really able to get ahead. It's so much harder for you to shoot
when you're down by 2 than when you're up by 2. It could have changed the game
but the shots didn't fall but we shot them with confidence, and that's all you
can really ask.

HANNA ZAVECZ: I agree with Ashley. It's a lot easier to make shots when you're
up. We had a majority of the crowd on our side tonight, so that would have
erupted the stadium, we just really needed one of those to drop.



Q. Toward the end of the game over the last five minutes, Ashley, the last
shot you took was the three that rimmed out at the buzzer. Did UNLV do
anything in particular to try and limit your touches?



ASHLEY ELLIOTT: You know, I don't think so. They put a little bit of pressure
on the whole game, and we just weren't able to come up with some shots down at
the end. They put a little bit more pressure on me at the outside, but we
still had our open shots, and they just weren't falling, so you can't ask for
anything else.

_

JIM MILLER: At this point we'll open it up for questions for Coach Legerski.

_ 

Q. Coach, what made the zone so effective during the first half?



COACH LEGERSKI: Well, we're not a zone team, and probably for the people that
follow us, you're probably as surprised as most people to see us do that. You
know, we have a tough time matching up with people. We don't have a great deal
of size inside, and so at times that's something that we knew that we had to
go to, and then you just hope that they don't make shots. I thought Erin Hicks
did an unbelievable job of making plays off the wing because they were trying
to go high and low on us and she probably came up with two or three big steals
in the end of the game, and we just tried to make sure that we never created a
situation where they were able to go one-on-one and we were able to make the
zone a little bigger and try to rebound out of it.



Q. You guys were able to take that shot to hit the lead and they come back and
make a couple three pointers. When you talk about momentum, that's really what
lifted them the last couple of minutes?



COACH LEGERSKI: When you play in what I call championship play, one game in
and out, you win the ballgame, you go home. Players need to step up and make
plays at big times, and when we were down one with about four minutes to go,
Hanna had a good look at a three and Erin had a good look at a three and
neither one would drop for us, and then they did make their play, so you have
to give credit to Vegas for stepping up and making plays when they needed to
make the plays, and I thought that was one of the differences in the outcome
of the ballgame is who could make a play in the last three and a half minutes
of the ballgame.



Q. Last season you won your first tournament game in the Mountain West
Conference history, and it was such a step forward for the program. I wonder
if you could elaborate -- I know this isn't going to be a step backwards. How
do you approach that heading into next season with a young team?



COACH LEGERSKI: We're in there thanking the seniors for all the effort they
gave to kind of get this foundation built and to remind them that this was the
first upper division finish for a Wyoming team in eight years, and so even
though when you come to tournament you want to keep moving on, I have to put
the whole year in perspective sometimes and I'll probably do that about a
month from now, but it was a heck of an effort by a young group of players
that's trying to change a mentality of Wyoming, and as I've mentioned to
people, I think the Mountain West is as good as what it's been. This league is
getting tougher. We talk about improving, but it's difficult to move up in the
standings just because of the strength at the top, and what this is doing is
we're just trying to close the gap in ballgames and trying to make sure that
we're one of the competitive ones, night in and night out.

_

JIM MILLER: Thanks, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Chris Denker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16291)

### [Melissa Dennett](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16292)

### [Sara Hunter](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14526)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: From Colorado State, head coach Chris Denker; No. 4, Sara Hunter;
No. 32, Melissa Dennett. Coach, if you want to begin with opening comments and
then we'll open it up to questions directed at the student athletes.

_

COACH DENKER: I thought it was a very well played game. I thought both teams
played well. Hats off to BYU, made really big plays at the right time. I
thought the three at the end of the half by Anderson and the three at the end
of the game obviously was big, also. They just made some sort of game-winning
types of plays. You know, they get a steal and convert it or force a turnover
coming out of a timeout, little things like that that kind of break your back,
a couple of O-board putbacks. The free throw disparity really hurt us because
I felt like they were able to get some easy baskets in the lane. The point
disparity was pretty large. It was like 42-20 as I glanced at the stats. I'm
really proud of our kids. I thought they played really hard, very competitive.
Got after it in all phases defensively, but I thought these two were big for
us. I thought Lindsay Thomas had a big game, as well, played with a lot of
passion. I thought our coaches did a great job having them prepared and the
scatter report and everything. We got beat by a team that made some big plays
on us.

_

JIM MILLER: Questions for the student athletes?

_ 

Q. Sara, you've had a great game. What was going through your head as you were
going through the game?



SARA HUNTER: Well, coming in I was lower seed, we really have nothing to lose,
so we just wanted to get after it and jump on them right away. We fought hard
through the whole game, just couldn't finish like coach said. We didn't make
the big plays when we needed to.



Q. Melissa, I had the sense that this was from start to finish the best game
you guys have played in quite a long time. I don't know if you agree with that
or not. I'd be curious on your thoughts, and maybe what was the key? What was
different tonight that you guys could sustain everything for as long as you
did?



MELISSA DENNETT: I agree, it's been a long time since we played that hard and
aggressive. You know, I don't really know what it was. Towards the end of the
season I think we've really come together our last couple of games, and I
think that really helped. I don't know, I think we were just all on the same
page. We all wanted to come out and do our best and do everything we could,
and so I think that's why we were so aggressive and just ready and well-
prepared.



Q. Sara, can you just talk about the shooting tonight? I mean, 7 of 10 from
three-point range. At what point did you know it was kind of your night?



SARA HUNTER: Well, just even in warm-ups I was feeling good. I really like
playing here at the Pepsi Center. I've done it a couple times before. I think
it was after the first couple I was really feeling it. My feet were getting
set quick and people were getting me open really well, making good passes. As
much as I'd like to take all the credit for it, my teammates did just about as
much.



Q. Melissa, it looked like it was a very physical game inside. Will you talk
about that and also if that played a role in the difference of the fouls?



MELISSA DENNETT: It was very physical. BYU is always a physical team. We knew
they were going to be pushing us around when we came in here. I don't know
really if it had -- I don't know.



Q. Melissa, next year obviously you, Lindsay, Vanessa, all you guys are going
to be seniors, you're pretty much bringing back the entire team. What do you
take from this year heading into next year, which obviously I imagine you have
pretty high expectations for?



MELISSA DENNETT: I don't know, we had a bunch of ups and downs this season. I
hope it's more consistent next year. I hope the way we played now, it'll flow
into next year. That's what I'm hoping for because we played really well this
end of the season. Hopefully it will carry over. That's what I'm expecting,
play more consistent and be able to count on each other.

_

JIM MILLER: Ladies, you can take off, and we'll open it up to questions to the
coach.

_ 

Q. Chris, I would assume you're going to be in contact with the WNIT people.
What do you think your chances are, and if you do get in, how do you think --
you're coming off a couple of pretty good performances. How do you think you
can do?



COACH DENKER: We have had some preliminary talks, and from what I understand,
you know, we're a team that they're interested in. I think as always with the
NIT there's a lot of what ifs, sort of waiting to see what's happening with
the other tournaments. You know how that goes. I definitely think that we
would show well in the NIT. I think as Diesel just said, we've been playing
pretty good basketball to be specific for maybe seven halves. You go back to
the second half of the Utah game where we scored 50 points and then New Mexico
we played pretty well, although we lost, and we played very well against Air
Force the other day and today was a good game and a hard-fought game. It
hasn't always translated into wins unfortunately for us, but we played some
pretty doggone good opponents there, too. I think that just shows that we
would perform well and we're really starting to play good basketball. Just
talking in the locker room there, I know that they're excited to continue to
play. I think we would do well if we got a chance to get in the NIT. Obviously
we've always hosted well, draw a lot of fans, so that would be beneficial to
the NIT, as well, I would think.



Q. You said earlier this season that any time a team has been able to get
really physical with you guys and kind of body you up that those have been
teams that you've had some trouble with. What did you do tonight to try and
get over Anderson and Kubic and company?



COACH DENKER: Good memory. No, you're absolutely right. You know, the question
was asked earlier about -- posed to Diesel about the physicality in the lane
and the free throws and whatnot. They always play physical, BYU, and we knew
that was going to be the case. They'll kind of shuttle in posts there and try
to keep banging. Obviously we have two really good post players that we're
going to try to get some shots for, so they're going to just try and shuffle
people in and out and try and bang on you. Unfortunately we didn't get some
calls that we would have liked to have gotten, but I thought it was a pretty
well officiated game. One major difference for them is that they would really
initiate contact with the dribble in terms of when they're driving the ball.
Sullivan, she creates a lot of contact on her own, so that physicality really
kind of took its toll, I think. You look at the interior scoring, again, 42-20
and the free throw disparity, situations like that, I think that their
physicality kind of got to us eventually.



Q. When Sarah is going like that, obviously you want to get her the ball. Do
you think you can maybe have that too much? It seemed down the stretch trying
to get the ball to her and you guys end up with the 20-footer from Lindsay?



COACH DENKER: It wasn't so much that we were just going to her on that because
-- what we did is we ran a little ball screen play and we knew they were going
to try to step out and show hard or perhaps even double her, and when they had
done that earlier in the game, it opened up Diesel on the roll. We were really
looking for that. But then what they were doing to get specific, LT's man was
specific to Diesel so we knew if we switched to LT we'd have a jumper. When we
did that she didn't have a shot so it came down to playing some motion and
trying to get a shot. They just kind of scrambled out of it and played pretty
good defense on that possession.



Q. With Julie and her penetration, it seemed like both her and Ambrosia got to
the rim a little bit. Just defensive let-downs on that or no rotation?



COACH DENKER: A little bit of both. You've got to do a better job at the point
of attack. We always kind of tell our kids, and I've heard it said several
times by coaches, the better you can just do one-on-one and not help and
rotate, the better your team defense is going to be. We always tell the kids,
try and shut your man down. It's a team defensive system; you've got to have
some help. BYU has got five kids on the court that can all shoot the
basketball, and I don't mean a layup, they're knocking down permanent jumpers,
you've got Cheesman, Kozlowski, they can all make 17-footers, maybe the
occasional three. You can go right down the roster. That's what makes them
dangerous and that's what makes Sullivan so good. She's a threat to drive it,
sneaky-quick, but uses her strength to kind of shove off a little bit and then
rise up to shoot. Ambrosia, she obviously had a good ballgame and they can do
a lot of things with her. Late there they tried to post her. They run off and
double hit a three, pretty versatile kid. She's a pretty tough guard. I'd also
add that I thought Sara's game was one of the better individual games,
regardless of class, that I've seen -- she just had that look in her eye, and
I was really proud of her for that. I thought LT and Diesel played their tails
off, but for a freshman kid to play like that, that's pretty special.

_

JIM MILLER: Thanks, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S
TOURNAMENT](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=MOUNTAIN+WEST+CONFERENCE+WOMEN%27S+TOURNAMENT)

  

## March 9, 2005

  

### [Lindsey Casey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14520)

### [Michelle Strawberry](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16285)

### [Jim Tomey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16284)

  
_DENVER, COLORADO_  
  
_

JIM MILLER: We'll begin with opening comments from Coach Tomey.

_

COACH TOMEY: Well, we drew who we thought was the best team in the conference
throughout the year, and probably the toughest match-up for us. They're big
people, have a lot of size, obviously have size, but they're also very active
and very athletic, and over the course of a long game, we're just not big
enough to really hang with them for 40 minutes around that basket, and that's
where they really hurt us, off put-backs and direct post-feeds and lobs, a
valiant effort by Lindsey and the other kids. We have to hang in there and
battle them, but it's a tough match-up for us. I commend our kids, we came out
at halftime, talked about cutting the game to 10 by the ten-minute mark, and
to their credit, they came out and that's exactly what they did. We had the
game to I think it was 55-44, and we missed some opportunities off the press.
We got a team that plays hard. We've competed extremely hard over the last
six, seven games. We hate to end our season with a loss like this, but we
commended them and told them how much we appreciated our players for the
effort they've given us over the second half of the season. Hats off to New
Mexico, they're a class team, they've got a lot of parts, a lot of working
parts. You can see a great fan base. They will go far in this tournament and
maybe in the NCAA.

_

JIM MILLER: At this point we'll open it up to questions for the student
athletes, Michelle Strawberry and Lindsey Casey.

_ 

Q. Lindsey, Dionne Marsh goes out with two fouls in the first half and four in
the second half and supposedly that's a good thing. Was it kind of deflating
to see Shetters come in and play so well?



LINDSEY CASEY: Any of their posts are all big, so when you see one go out with
fouls, it's really no better for another one to come in because it's just that
much harder. We play really well inside, even their bench players, so it's not
really one of those things where they got fouls, she's out, we've got a chance
to relax. You almost have to play even harder when the bench posts come in, so
I guess no.



Q. Michelle, can you talk about the importance to add size in this program?
You have guards who kind of were able to pressure and do some test to contest,
but can you talk about the need that you have to get bigger if you're going to
compete with these people?



MICHELLE STRAWBERRY: I think it's very important for us to add size because
our tallest player is around 6'2''. What really hurt us so when they lobbed it
into the post; that our guards were so small that they can shoot over us. I
think for this program to be successful we're going to need some size. Our
guards did a pretty good job of trying to avoid them passing into the post,
but size is really a key factor when they're 6'4" shooting over a 5'10" guard.
I think size will be a factor because it's tough to handle.

_

JIM MILLER: Questions for Coach Tomey?

_ 

Q. That seems to obviously have been your toughest situation, trying to get
size. You've signed one kid, you might have others coming, but what's been
your experience since you've switched from the men's side in terms of how many
really good players there are with size, and is it a situation where the
really good ones are going to go to the top programs anyway and they're
difficult to find? Why is it tough to find at this point size?



COACH TOMEY: Well, the players with length that are really good tend to drift
towards the top 30 programs in the country. There are other players with
length who aren't necessarily as talented and are kids that you're going to
have to work with. We've got a 6'4" kid coming in this up and coming
recruiting class, and we've got another 6'4" player on campus tomorrow with
her parents. We know we need to address that need, but to just go out and say
there's one that's going to make an impact immediately, over the last two
years, we just haven't had it. We haven't seen it, or we've lost out on a
couple to programs that had a little higher profile than we had when we took
over. We feel like we've put a core of kids in there -- for most of this game
you looked at sophomores and freshmen playing out on the floor. We think we
got a core that we can work with. We're going to add six players to this
squad, and I think we've addressed the needs that we have. We need more
quickness and we've got two extremely quick guards coming in, and we need
size. We've signed a 6'2" and a 6'4'' kid, and I think we're going to sign
another one. It's about building. I mean, New Mexico has been here for many
years now. I feel like we're just getting started. We need to continue to grow
and work with our players and keep adding to the roster. We need to add good
people who can play.



Q. Can you address in general the growth of the league as you've seen it since
you've been a head coach as far as the balance of some of these other teams
that are playing in the tournament and how difficult the league has become?
Talk about that.



COACH TOMEY: Well, it's very competitive basketball. It was competitive when
we got here. There were two or three teams making the NCAA tournament the
first year. You've got Utah and New Mexico who have been at the top the three
years that I've been here, and that hasn't changed. They're still the best two
teams in the conference. And I think everyone else is catching up. Air Force
and us, despite our record, we're an improved team. The last six games of our
league, you know, if you look at the results and if you went to the games, you
saw a team that was in most of those games from start to finish. This team in
particular has handled us and hammered us three times, and I think I've
addressed why that happens. It's a solid league. It's a solid women's
basketball league, and we're going to need to improve our roster in order to
compete and get to the upper tier of the league. But it's certainly doable and
it's a realistic goal, but it's going to take some time and it's going to take
players. So that's where we're headed.



Q. Did you feel this game was kind of maybe a microcosm of the season? You
said on Monday that you were worried about the team's shooting but you thought
you'd be able to force turnovers. Both those things happened. I was just
hoping you could address that.



COACH TOMEY: Yeah, we've seen this game before, but a lot of it has to do, I
think, with our lack of size. They scored early in this game by pushing it
inside, and we had a game plan to try and prevent that from happening.
Sometimes it's just not enough. You can get there and put the double on and
they're still going over you. We have had difficulty shooting this year. If we
shoot another three, four percentage points higher on the season, we probably
add four or five victories to our total. We've also been a team that's been
depleted and hurt throughout the year. I know that happens to a lot of teams,
but it happened seriously to us, in particular early, when we're trying to
build a team and put a team together and gain confidence with a team. When you
lose your two best players, one for the season and another for eight games in
the non-league, you've been working with a team for six weeks and then all of
a sudden you're working with kids that you didn't really see as impact
players. So I think there's a combination of a lot of things, but shooting has
been an issue for us. We don't turn the ball over a lot. We play extremely
hard. We defend. I think we do as good a job as we can rebounding. We get out
of rebounding a lot because we miss a lot of shots. There's just more rebounds
for the opponent to get, and then when you add the size to that, it makes for
problems. These are things that we've got to address, we've got to get better
at and continue to build on.

_

JIM MILLER: Thanks, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 5, 2005

  

### [Kristin Haynie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15312)

### [Joanne P. McCallie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14490)

### [Kelli Roehrig](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16351)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: As before, we will go with an opening statement from the coach
and then I ask you please to direct your questions to the players so that we
can release them back to the open locker room period.

_

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I would like to compliment Baylor. I thought Baylor
played a terrific basketball game. I really think the outside shooting of
Niemann in the first half was really critical to just the overall confidence
and opening up the inside and then I thought their post players just did a
great job. Basically that's the story of the game. Three players for them
really doing outstanding work. I think for our game it wasn't a great game for
us. Obviously we didn't play well. We didn't rebound. There's a lot of things
we didn't do. But I hate to sit up here as a coach and talk about what we
didn't do. I think it's important in this situation to talk about that a team
played great and Baylor played great. And that's just what happens. Baylor
played super, we played average, and you really can't do that at this level,
that's just the bottom line.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the players, please.

_ 

Q. For either Kelli or for Kristin. The trademark of your tournament run has
always been strong second halves. You've had them in every game. What was
Baylor able to neutralize tonight?



KELLI ROEHRIG: Well, they out-rebounded us 45 to 22, and that's it alone.



Q. Kelli, if you would, now that you faced Baylor's post players, just what
made them so difficult for you tonight?



KELLI ROEHRIG: They're two very great post players. They did an excellent job
in the paint. They -- we just didn't box out. We didn't shot contest in the
paint. They played -- we gave them way too many open looks inside.



Q. For either of the players, from the podium yesterday or the day before the
Baylor players were very complimentary of your team, your teamwork, your
sharing the ball and how hard you played. But each one in a conversation would
drop in, I don't think they're as athletic as we are. Do you think that was a
factor tonight?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Definitely not. We're two great athletic teams. We're very
good teams and like everyone's been saying, it was a rebounding -- we weren't
disciplined enough to box them out. We knew they were tall and they could
jump.



Q. Kelli, all season long especially in the tournament you guys had four
double digit scores, today there was two. How tough was that and how much of a
factor do you think that was?



KELLI ROEHRIG: I think that was a big factor. Lindsay held her own, they did
unbelievable, everything they could. There was slack in the post area. We
didn't really hold our own and I mean we needed to step up.



Q. Kristin, it might be difficult to have to accept the loss tonight, but at
the same time can you and your teammates still realize what you have
accomplished this year and what you've done for Michigan State basketball?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Definitely. This loss is going to hurt, you know, but looking
back at our season we did some big things. We did a lot for the program.
Overall it was a great season for us.



Q. Kristin, can you talk about how you think Michigan State basketball will be
changed now because of this run and other teams right now in women's
basketball that are sitting here looking at y'all and Baylor, what kind of
confidence that may give them to make it to this stage?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: It was a great game. Michigan State and Baylor making it to
the finals. That says a lot about women's basketball. And it's on the rise.
This program is going to keep going on the rise, getting good recruits coming
in and there's going to be the same old Michigan State basketball. Hard, blue
collar workers.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to release these girls back to the open locker room
period. Questions for the Coach.

_ 

Q. If you could just talk about the play of Kristin and Lindsay together and
how the brief run that you did make late in the first half, early in the
second, what they did to spark that?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: They are great competitors. They just attacked more,
attacking the basket more. Just being very, very aggressive like they can be.
The two of them have done a terrific job for us. And they have been a terrific
back court all year long. 33 is a big -- a lot of wins. And a lot of that had
to do with the way our back court handled things.



Q. That Niemann girl, how did she get so open so often?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: If you look at the film the kid is three feet off
the line. She hit great shots. You have to give her credit for that. We
definitely had her scouted and ready to in face contest her, but she hit a
couple of threes that were unbelievable. I still felt that we were in great
shape in the second half, despite our shooting. But we just didn't pull
together the energy that we had shown against, for example, like Tennessee. We
just didn't pull together the energy necessary to come down. We were down nine
at one point. And we were ready to go and just a few bad decisions here or
there kind of helped them notch it back up again.



Q. Could you talk a little bit about the play of Steffanie and Sophia and what
they did to you. It seemed like you were throwing a lot of players at them and
they just kept running away?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: They were just great together. They're two terrific
post players. I think the interesting thing about them is they don't really
have to use the low block at all. They can, what I call free flow. They can go
anywhere. So they will hit shots from the high post, the mid post, they will
step out and make it much more harder to double, much harder to dig at them
because they're constantly moving. I just thought they were beautiful. I
caught myself watching them on occasion and said I better stop that and get
back to coaching the game. They just really made some great shots and I really
want to get back to Niemann, I think she was the whole key to this game. I
think if you take number 51 off the floor, it's a whole different game. She
was definitely the X factor.



Q. Score notwithstanding, did perhaps Baylor have the best combination of
rebounding and shooting that y'all faced in the tournament?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: They had -- well, I think that we were a step slow.
You have to remember, we played Tennessee, the most physical team around. And
came back from 16 points down. We just -- nobody was moving like they could
move. And that was a big problem against a nice athletic team like Baylor. I
just think they played very, very well. They played great and we did not match
that and I'm sorry, it's too bad it wasn't a more exciting game. It really was
disingenuous to the Final Four in terms of those semi final games.



Q. I think people are learning more about Sophia Young, what were your
impressions about her athleticism and everything?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: She's just so graceful. She's a beautiful, just
beautiful student-athlete, the way she moves and that. She's a great player. I
think the best four player or if you want to call her a four player, that we
have seen all year. That kid's an All-American.



Q. Along with the rebounding, did this just largely come down to the fact that
they had three players go off and you had two?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yeah, and they didn't really go off. If Lindsay
Bowen goes off it's 33 points like she did against TCU or Notre Dame. We
didn't have anybody go off and I don't think we should pretend that we did; we
didn't. And yes, they had, when I say "go off," yeah, I mean they had three
players that really were very, very impressive. Their shooting percentages
speak for themselves. So our defense did not do enough to take them out of
their tempo and obviously that's very disappointing.



Q. A little bit along those same lines, the one thing that seemed like you
struggled even when you were playing very, very well since the beginning of
the Big-10 tournament is rebounding. Was there a little bit of a thing like,
like against an athletic team like this that you were a little concerned that
if we don't take care of the fundamentals totally we're really, really going
to get hurt in this area tonight?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yes, we understand the value of rebounding. We were
upset about the Big-10 tournament, because we won without rebounding. And
that's never a good thing in preparation for the NCAA tournament. And I
thought that that hurt us early in the NCAA tournament when we didn't play
that great. I thought it hurt us, because our kids found a way to win without
rebounding. And that hurt us against USC, that hurt us bad. But then we were
able to get out of that and for the rest of the ride really get after the
rebounds, and you saw Tennessee, we didn't do a great job and here we didn't.
It's obviously been something that's been troublesome and something we need to
work on.



Q. All year the talk's been about you guys match-up zone and how effective
it's been; what did Baylor do that was able to really penetrate and get the
kicks that other teams may not have been able to do during the year?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, again it goes back to their post play. Nobody
in the country had two posts like them, pure and simple.



Q. Can you talk about what this season did for your program, the run
notwithstanding this last game, and at the end it seemed like you guys kind of
hovered around; did you watch their celebration or kind of have a moment or
something to remember or were you trying to hang around to shake their hand?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Just wanted to shake their hands. Obviously just
very impressed with what they did tonight and, yeah, we were just trying to
shake hands and allow them to have the floor for their celebration. In terms
of our program, it's hard to judge right now. None of us have read a paper or
answered our cell phones in three weeks. We have lived in a bubble world and I
guess it's back to the dog, it's back to normal life, which is probably a
very, very good thing. And in terms of the program for Michigan State, we're
very proud to represent Michigan State. We're very proud to have women's
basketball be something special. These women have collected a lot of hardware
this season and they are champions and they have been champions all season
long. And I just have the utmost respect for them and it goes down as the
greatest season ever for Michigan State women's basketball. And that's
something we're going to be very proud about.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach, thank you very much for joining us and congratulations
again on a great season.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 5, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Emily Niemann](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16352)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Once again, we'll take questions for the student-athletes after
an opening statement from the Coach.

_

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Wow, we're national champions. First basketball
national championship for the Big 12, men or women. First for women's
basketball at Baylor. And what a performance it was. I thought rebounding was
outstanding for us. Looking at the stats, that's the most we have out-
rebounded anybody all year. And to limit them to just three offensive rebounds
and make sure they only got one look at the basket, I was very proud of our
defense. I told the team before the game, during half-time and throughout the
course of the playoffs, your defense will win you a national championship.
Your defense will win you a national championship. And it was pretty special
again tonight.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the players, please.

_ 

Q. Emily, you have another pretty good athlete in your family; was he here
tonight or have you heard from him this week?



EMILY NIEMANN: I got a text message, yeah. I'm sure I got voice mail waiting
on me too. He is actually in spring training camp right now at Tampa Bay, so
he didn't make it but I'm sure he's by a TV, yeah.



Q. Emily, how much were you feeling it tonight?



EMILY NIEMANN: I was feeling good tonight. As always, I don't have to say this
just to say it but my teammates did a great job of getting me a ball in great
spots. Chelsea hit a great screen for me to take it into the locker room for
half-time and they just do a great job of making things easy on me when I can
just catch and shoot then I'm comfortable and I was feeling good tonight.



Q. Sophia, does this make, to your right, does this make the move to the
United States, make everything worthwhile, is this what you wanted? What kind
of player are you going to be once you actually figure out how to play the
game?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Yeah, this actually makes everything worthwhile. I feel like I'm
living my dream and I don't know what kind of player I'll be. Hopefully I'll
just grow up to develop into a better player.



Q. Sophia and Steffanie, could you talk a little bit about the confidence that
Emily's early shots gave you when she hit like four three's in a row.



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: That's big time. We needed that to spread the floor with
their zone and everything so she just, I told her to kept shooting and she
kept knocking it down.

SOPHIA YOUNG: When Emily hit that first shot I was like, "oh, yeah, she's on,"
you know. I was very excited that she came in. She knocked down those two big
threes for us and that just gave us a lot of momentum into the game and we
knew that she was going to be hot for the rest of the night too. Like
Steffanie said, we told her to keep shooting because she was hot.



Q. For Steffanie, judging by the score it looked like the game plan came
together perfectly for y'all. Was it as easy as it looked out there?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: No, one of the things that is coach's emphasis is defense
and we just really tried to buckle down and I thought our defense was great.
We let a couple buckets go at the end of the first half but it was all about
defense and that helped us create some transition offense.



Q. For Steffanie and Emily, you two might have - "struggled" might be a little
strong - but maybe had the least type of performance that you were used to of
anyone in the rotation. Can you talk about how each of you had managed to stay
confident throughout this to play so well tonight?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: It's just something that you just have to try to stay
positive and confident and if you don't do as well one night try to come back
the next night. And if you can't do it, just do whatever you can to help your
team, rebound, play defense, whatever. You just got to keep confident and wait
your turn and keep shooting and it will finally fall in and if it does, that's
great.

EMILY NIEMANN: Yeah, I would just like to add something to that, that while
Stef and I might not have been scoring as much as we're used to and our team
is used to us doing, we were playing good basketball. Both of us had good
defense, solid. There's other things than scoring and I know that I've seen
that throughout the year from Stef and she was a great senior for us, a great
leader all the way through it and we wouldn't be here without it regardless of
how many points she scored. As far as my struggling, it's just part of it.
Slumps, shooters have them and you got to keep shooting the ball. If I would
have quit or given up then I wouldn't have had a night like I did tonight. And
you just got to plug through it.



Q. Emily, do you think that you guys winning the national championship now
there are a lot of teams saying, hey, it is possible, we can make it there?



EMILY NIEMANN: Yeah, I think it's a huge, just a compliment to the way the
women's game has come that you don't have just 20 players in the country, at
the Connecticut's and Tennessees, but you have lots of great players all over
the country and they're going to different schools and it's making a the game
a lot of fun to watch and a lot of fun to be a part of.



Q. Steffanie and Sophia, 45-22 rebounding edge; can you talk about some of
them were tipped rebounds where somebody else would get them; were y'all
trying to keep the ball active sometimes?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I thought it was a great team effort. I think a couple
times somebody would tip the ball and somebody would come and get it. People
running down just rebounds, long rebounds, so rebounding is always the
emphasis for us every game. One thing we tried to do is make sure that they,
the defensive end, make sure it was won and done so they didn't get second
chance points. So just tried to crash hard.

SOPHIA YOUNG: I think that they're a team that's pretty hard to get around to
so more than likely the ball will be tipped all the time. So that's why it was
tipped. But like Steffanie said, emphasis is always on rebounding and I think
we did a pretty good job of that tonight.



Q. Any of y'all, been pretty business-like, we talked about that this whole
time; can you celebrate, are you excited? (All said "yeah.")



SOPHIA YOUNG: Yeah, all night. We don't have anything to worry about anymore.
So this is definitely a celebration tonight.

STEFFANIE BLACKMON: Yeah, the last game.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Ladies, thank you very much. And now we'll take questions for
the coach. Congratulations on a great season.

_ 

Q. The trademark of Michigan State in their tournament run has always been
strong second halves. What did you remind your players about at half-time to
try and keep them from finding some momentum to get back in the game?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I reminded them that Tennessee had a 16-point lead
with about 14 minutes to go in the semifinal game and they beat them. I
reminded them about the eight-minute mark when we were up double figures
pretty good, that this game wasn't over. That's just the way I coach. I never
let them get comfortable out there and think that the game is won or if it's
over. At the five-minute mark, still said the same thing. If you think the
game is won, you need to sit down by me and let me put somebody on the floor
that understands and you just keep plugging away, you keep playing. And that's
what I said to them.



Q. Could you comment on your status as the first person to win a title as a
player, assistant, a head coach?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I don't think about those things. Certainly it's
an honor. But as I said, I've been blessed all my life to put myself around
winners. When I was in high school I was around winners, when I was in college
I was around winners, and I learned from the best. I don't really know that --
I mean that's -- it's nice, but that's the least of my concerns right now. I'm
so happy for Baylor University. I cannot say it enough.



Q. The three players you had up there outscored Michigan State's bigs by 50
points and Michigan State's team by five. When did you know that you could
have that kind of success with them?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, I thought Michigan State's match-up zone
would present some problems for us. But then again, I knew I had Emily Niemann
and Chameka Scott and I knew I had LaToya Wyatt that could basically shoot the
perimeter shot. But we weren't going to let it become a perimeter game. You
got to get post touches, guys, that's the key to breaking down a zone. You got
to do what got you here and the post game got us here and we kept getting post
touches and Emily was lighting it up from the perimeter and I just can't say
enough about LaToya Wyatt. All year long we have known about Steffanie and
Sophia, because they're all Americans, but we always have had a player
unexpectedly step up and do something that people forget about. Nobody thought
LaToya Wyatt would be a factor in this game and I did and I thought the
penetrating skills with the ball in her hand would break down the zone. I
thought her defensive lateral speed and quickness would come off of staggered
screens and I thought LaToya Wyatt was very big for us tonight.



Q. Can you talk about what you were thinking the first two minutes of the
game, four turnovers in the first five or six possessions; you made the very
quick, very sudden two substitutions right away.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: And I didn't make the substitutions necessarily
because those kids were to blame for the slow start. I just felt like I've had
confidence in anybody I put in. And I felt like we needed some things from
those two kids, Emily, the perimeter shot; and Tisdale, the freshman point
guard could push it up the floor at that time and give us a little spurt of
energy. I thought when we turned it over, you know, three or four times there
in a row, I looked at my staff and I said, "Now how are we going to win a
national championship turning the ball over like this?" And then we settled
down. And I just thought it was a very good performance for us tonight.



Q. You said on television after the game this is one of many to come. You were
talking about your team?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I was talking about Baylor University and all of
athletics at Baylor University. We won one in tennis, now we have won one in
women's basketball. We have got a Top-25 softball team, we got a Top-25
basketball team and our men's basketball team is headed in the right
direction.



Q. Well, you're still pretty young Head Coach, you've only been at it a few
years, I mean, is it hard not to look down the road and see how many you might
be able to win?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No, man, I live day-to-day. In this profession it
wears on you. I love what I do, I have a passion for what I do. We have a lot
of young players. We only lose three seniors, two of those get significant
time, but we have got a returning nucleus of players that aren't going to go
away and they sure did like the way it felt when that buzzer went off tonight.



Q. What are some of the primary keys to turning around a program over the
course of five years; and second, after seeing what Bruce Webber wore last
night did you feel like you had to come out with something flashy?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I didn't even see the game; I don't know what he
wore. Orange? Well, I wouldn't have worn orange, I can tell you that.
(Laughter.) What was your first question?



Q. Keys to building the program.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: The keys to building a program are you better be
at a school that has an athletic director and an administration that will give
you what you want and give you most importantly time to build a program. And
give you the resources. Secondly, you better go hire you a staff that will
roll their sleeves up and make you look good and understand what you have to
do in recruiting to go out and build. You can't go out after the McDonald's
All-Americans, you got to go after sleepers and beat the bushes and find those
players. We just won a national championship with not one kid on the roster
that was recruited by the powers that be. And that gives hope to all of us
that are trying to build a program. To the outfit, my assistant Coach Jennifer
White saw it in a store the night before we left and I told her to bring it
on. That's the story behind the outfit.



Q. You talked about the rebounding edge; the fact that you had so many players
involved too, LaToya I believe had six, Chameka, Chelsea. How big was that,
knowing that maybe Steffanie and Sophia couldn't get them all?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We got loot of long rebounds, and we also used our
guards to go get a lot of tough rebounds down deep. I thought that there was
one minute there where Steffanie Blackmon came across the lane, Emily Niemann
had blocked her girl out and Emily couldn't get to it but she made sure, by
God, her girl wasn't going to get to it. I love seeing things like that. It
was a total team effort in everything we did tonight. When you can play your
entire team in a national championship game and those young ladies get an
opportunity to run down that floor and dribble the ball and play everybody,
what a wonderful feeling.



Q. You mentioned that you are the first team men's or women's from the Big 12
to win a national title in basketball. If someone had said Baylor would do
that in 1997 when the league was formed, I think a lot of people would have
thought you were crazy. Can you just comment on it that you were the ones.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Oh, I'm not sure what people say about Baylor and
I really don't give a rip what they say. We're national champions today. They
probably said we didn't belong in the Big 12. My guess is they're rethinking
that, aren't they?

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach, thank you very much. We're going to release you back to
the locker room. Congratulations on a wonderful season and your national
championship.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 4, 2005

  

### [Sue Donohoe](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15066)

### [Lynn Parkes](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14491)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're joined with Lynn Parkes and Sue Donohoe. We're going to
allow Lynn as the chair to make an opening comment and then we'll go our
questions, please. Thank you.

_

LYNN PARKES: Good afternoon. On behalf of the committee, I just want to thank
you for being here today and tell you how delighted we are with the way the
championship has worked this year. I think we have all experienced in the last
three or four weeks what we have talked about during the regular season and
that parity is real. When we look at our Final Four teams and the way things
have developed, that that is what parity is. So we're living that this
weekend. We're delighted with the championship and looking forward to a
wonderful championship game tomorrow night.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: And we'll start with questions for either Sue or Lynn.

_ 

Q. Parity, it seems like people have different opinions as to whether parity
is good or not good. Tell me why it's good for women's basketball.



LYNN PARKES: Well, I think when you see what we call parity, that speaks to
the fact that programs are developing, that institutions have made commitments
to their women's basketball programs that allow them the resources and the
time and effort to bring their programs forward. I think as much as anything
that's what it says.



Q. Lynn, I know it's only a couple weeks after the new format, for the first
and second rounds, but just based on attendance figures and just initial
feedback, just the committee's thought on the new format.



LYNN PARKES: Well, I think that we're very pleased with it. I think that we
had some challenges with the format. I think there certainly were some things
on the plus side of the ledger as well. We had an opportunity to have
additional neutral games as a result of that. We certainly see that as a
positive thing. We know and we're not surprised that our attendance took a
little bit of a hit. But I think that what we're also seeing is that we were
down a little bit in the regionals. I think that was related to the Easter
Sunday weekend. Obviously that's not something we can control. But it's a
process, it's an education process for the fans and I think we'll work through
that part. So we're very pleased with it and we certainly think that it adds a
new dimension for us and there's a lot of positive things that have resulted.



Q. For Lynn, the attendance, I think to say Easter weekend is a little bit, I
mean attendance was abysmal, especially in my Regional at Kansas City. How
does the attendance at a place like that affect the NCAA's view on bringing a
Regional back to that area?



LYNN PARKES: Well, attendance is just one component of what we look at when we
determine a site. And there were some teams that had an opportunity to advance
in that area that may have affected that one way or another. So although it's
important to us, we want to create a good environment for the student-
athletes. All this is not revenue-driven. We want it to be a good environment
for the student-athletes. But there are other components as well, community
support, volunteer support, those sorts of things. So all of that factors in.



Q. Women's sports in general seem to be still a niche market in this country,
whether it's women's gymnastics in Utah or women's basketball in eastern
Tennessee. How does that affect your philosophy in putting on the tournament;
are you trying to overcome this and bring the women's game to areas where it
may not be as popular or do you use that fact in order to drive your
selections?



LYNN PARKES: All of the above. I think all of those things roll into what the
decision is. And you're exactly right, we have all talked about that, women's
basketball for many fans, it is a niche market. And it's an educational
process that we're going through in trying to take that fan that has an
affinity for a particular team and broaden the scope so that they're
basketball fans instead of a fan of a particular institution.



Q. What can you do or how much more proactive does the NCAA have to be as far
as selling regionals? Because a Final Four now has been on lottery system
since 1998, been an advance sellout since 1993 and yet it seems like there's
still a lot of trouble selling the regionals. You've talked before about the
potential of maybe awarding regionals for multi years; is that still on the
table?



LYNN PARKES: Well, we actually have done that in this last cycle. And at this
point we're only awarding for two years and that's kind of a test shot, so to
speak, see how that works and then we'll circle back and assess it and move
from there. But what we think that that will do for us is give a host
institution and a host city an opportunity for multiple marketing
opportunities and maybe even working with coaches to come into that area and
do some promotional type things, so that we can kind of grow it from the
ground up. So I think that we're in a situation where we want to be creative,
we want to be smart in the way we progress. But we need to do some things to
grow that. We were just talking yesterday that in the next couple of years
we're actually in a traditional arena, where we'll have fewer tickets on the
street. And we hope that some of those basketball fans that may not have an
opportunity to attend a Final Four, we can drive them to a Regional and let
that be the basketball experience for them for that particular year.



Q. This question is for Sue. TV ratings seem to drive sports more each year,
does it -- is there a bit of an, I don't want to say disappointment, but
without a UCONN, without a Tennessee in the championship game, does that -- do
you worry about what effect that's going to have?



SUE DONOHOE: I don't think so. I think that we have looked at numbers over the
last several weeks and certainly we'll look at numbers that they pulled down
last night and we feel confident that the numbers were good from last night.
Last year was an extraordinary year. From a ratings standpoint, we just blew
the top out and ESPN certainly deserves a lot of credit for that and how they
broadcast the games and the production of those. When you look at what we have
accomplished from a ratings standpoint, over an extended period of time, we're
still very good this year. We're not as good as we were last year, but you're
not going to have the kind of year that we had last year. I think there's
several reasons for that. We have had some games that maybe teams got out to
an early lead and kept that lead and it affected folks turning and looking for
something else. But without a doubt in my mind, I think talking with our ESPN
partners last night, they feel very good about what we have done through the
tournament and certainly we feel like we'll pull good numbers from last night.
Tennessee and UCONN are the names that folks recognize and certainly they have
carried the torch and the tradition for a long time. But I think that there
will be a crowd tomorrow night tuning in to see the new kids on the block.

LYNN PARKES: I want to circle back to your question too and ask Sue to take
just a minute to talk about a branding and marketing initiative that the NCAA
and the issues committee has taken on. Because I think it's very, very
positive and certainly in line with what your question was.

SUE DONAHOE: Thank, Lynn. We have been working for about 18 to 20 months now
on what we call a branding attribute initiative for NCAA women's basketball
and basically what we have done with that, we have spent an extraordinary
amount of time doing a great deal of research. And we have gone out to focus
groups and we have talked with them, tell us what makes women's basketball
unique, what sets women's basketball aside. And we have talked with student-
athletes, we have talked with fans, we have talked with coaches, we have
talked to the general public and we have identified five to six brand
attributes: Sportsmanship, role model, community involvement, fundamental
play. Those things that define what women's basketball is. And what we did
this morning, we had a breakfast meeting very early with the women's coaches
Divisions 1, 2 and 3, and we asked them to take a part in delivering that
message every day, all day about what women's basketball is and deliver that
message wide, deliver it far, so that hopefully we can build some equity in
our brand, we can distinguish ourselves within the marketplace, and certainly
our measurable outcome for that will be attendance and it's attendance in the
regular season and ultimately an increase in attendance at the championship.



Q. Can both of you ladies address if it hasn't been already, the thought of
what's going into, there's a move now to move the three-point line and all
these things for international -- seems to be towards with the international
play in mind and what have you; how do you think and what do you think of it
in regards to women's basketball, is it necessary or not?



LYNN PARKES: Well, that's something that would be addressed through the issues
committee and the rules committee. And I'm going to let Sue kind of take that
one because I know she's been a part of the discussion more than likely.

SUE DONOHOE: You know, there was an effort to make that change, to extend the
three-point line and then to widen the lane. There were some folks that were
very much in favor of it, so many folks that were opposed to it. With the
opposition opposed, those recommendations were pulled off the table, and it
allows both the Men's and Women's Rules Committees to go back to the table,
have further discussion, maybe put some experimental rules out there. I think
what you're seeing is, when you see a lot of the international play and a lot
of our young student-athletes and coaches are participating in that
international play, those that support it believe that extending the three-
point line and it's only an extension of about no more than nine inches, so
we're talking about like this (indicating), that that certainly was not as
controversial as the widening of the lane. But I think those that support it
believe that by widening the lane, that it will free up some of the rough post
play that happens in the paint. But where we are with it right now, the rules
committees meet early May, and both the men's and women's rules committees
will spend some significant time discussing it. They have done a great job of
talking with the membership out in the coaches organizations to get a position
on where the coaches are with it. So it's certainly a topic for discussion
that they will have this spring and we'll see where the rules committee goes
with it from there.



Q. Will both the men and the women have to agree on it or can it be one or the
other?



SUE DONOHOE: It could be one or the other. I think ideally from a facility
standpoint and a logistical standpoint and a commonality standpoint it makes
sense. But certainly if the men feel like they need to make that change, they
would. The men's and women's rules committee work very closely, they actually
meet at the same time, they open up their meeting with a general session where
they can identify common issues and areas that they need to discuss and then
throughout that rules meeting our staff folks that work with them are back and
forth so that they're talking about the same common points. So they will work
on that together. But it's certainly not something they would have to decide
collaboratively.



Q. You guys will decide the 2007 first and second round sites later this
summer, is that correct?



LYNN PARKES: Yes.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: And are all bids in already for those?

_

LYNN PARKES: Yes.



Q. Can you give me a feeling, are there many more bids similar to what Texas
and Texas Tech did this past year as far as two schools together submitting a
bid for a neutral site?



SUE DONAHOE: The bids that we received, we don't have a lot of that sort of
model. I think that I had the opportunity to start the tournament out in
Dallas. And I felt like there were some very strong points to the model that
Texas and Texas Tech put together. Certainly Dallas is a great city and they
did a great job hosting. We don't have a lot of that, but I would say this: I
think we have got a significant amount of interest from a lot of different
institutions and conferences that are interested in hosting in 2007, 2008. I
think someone asked me the number and we had 30-plus bids submitted. So
that's, that gives us a good pool of institutions and facilities from which we
can choose.



Q. When you say 30 host cities, is that for just the regionals or for first
and second rounds as well.



SUE DONAHOE: First and second rounds. And we have got some folks that
submitted bids both for first and second round and for regionals. Which is
good, because it gives the committee some flexibility to distribute the
tournament sites throughout the country. As Lynn referenced earlier, the
opportunity for some of these sites to bid for two years we had a significant
amount of interest in that from a Regional standpoint. And the step that the
committees take on the move to neutral Regional sites in 2007, 2008, that's
the next incremental step to get us to a totally neutral tournament.



Q. Sue, you kind of maybe answered the question a little bit, but in looking
at the regionals, a lot of interest from cities trying to go back-to-back
years and did you have to go out and ask cities to do this; did you solicit it
or did cities come to you and say, "Hey, we're really wanting to do this back-
to-back year thing."



SUE DONAHOE: You know what, we got great response. We didn't go out and
solicit it. The cities and the facilities and hosts that submitted those bids,
they understand what that can do for us. Because they understand by coming in
and the effort that the committee does and the staff does in helping them
prepare, they understand that instead of trying to build equity for one year,
they have got about a two and a half year window there that they can build and
they can market and grow and it's going to be exciting to see how it works out
for us. But it's one of those steps that we think will have a good return and
have good results.



Q. New Mexico has been one of the best regionals in terms of attendance. And
they're going to be a regional if I understand it, next year, they're going to
have it. Do you think in 2007 and beyond, a school like New Mexico will still
be as interested in hosting regionals if they cannot -- if from what I
understand the Lobos couldn't appear there. Do you think that you'll still get
that kind of interest from a school like that once it has to be a neutral site
and their school can't appear there?



LYNN PARKES: Well, I think what you'll find is I think New Mexico will have
some interest in doing that. I think we have some other sites that have a long
history of hosting events. I think what you'll find is that institutions may
find other locations that can be supported by that fan base that might not be
on their home floor. And the way we have defined neutral sites is that
institutions can play on that home, on that site no more than three times
during the regular season, excluding the conference tournaments. So using
Memphis as an example, if we play on campus and we wanted to host a Regional,
we could go to the Fed Ex Forum and host it there because at this point we
don't play more than three games in the forum. So there are ways to work
through the system, meet their neutral site responsibility and still draw from
a traditional fan base.



Q. Could you address what the advantages are from your standpoint of moving
the announcement of the selections from Sunday to Monday?



LYNN PARKES: Well, we talked for a long time about whether to make that move
or not. And ESPN came to us with the concept and they have been a wonderful
television partner and have provided us with some opportunities that frankly
have worked and developed the championship. In this particular case, they feel
that we have an opportunity and we have come to the point where we agree with
them, in that they're creating a situation where we will own the night. It
will be our show, we have a guaranteed one-hour window. And we work through
what we feel like were some of the hurdles that we didn't want to disadvantage
teams in terms of travel and those sorts of things. We feel like that was part
of the delay in not moving to that selection Monday, this weekend, to give us
an opportunity to work through some of those things. So they also are working
with the committee about some other initiatives that are included in this that
will promote that, that will even bleed into the regular season and we feel
like that the whole package will really be a great asset for women's
basketball.

SUE DONOHOE: I would just add a couple of comments there. The commitment that
ESPN has made to this women's championship over the last years has just been
phenomenal and we sit here today with all 63 of our games telecast and that's
a commitment from ESPN. ESPN is quick to say and I would agree, that this
championship is one of their premier properties. And as Lynn mentioned, we
have talked for a long time about this and it was a very difficult decision
and we stayed at the negotiation table a long time, and we got up from that
table and we came back a couple of times. But at the end of the day, when
you're partner says let us take this and let this championship and this
selection and let us give it the treatment and the exposure that it needs,
that's when the committee felt like let's take that step. And then when
essentially when ESPN came back and said, we understand that building regular
season helps build championships. That was an important factor. So it's been a
long time in discussion and a lot of back and forth, but if we're going to
continue to grow the championship, there is some risk and there's some good,
good chances that you need to take and the committee feels like this is one
that hopefully will set us apart and give us an identity, a place of our own.



Q. To follow it up, do you have an understanding from ESPN that they are going
to increase their commitment to more regular season programming?



SUE DONOHOE: Yeah, absolutely. And there were some -- the way that we rolled
this information out, we went to the WBCA officers first, we went to their
Board of Directors and then the first group of individuals that were aware
that the decision had been made were our coaches. And we sent an e-mail blast
out notifying our coaches immediately before anybody else knew. And several of
the points in that informational piece was the commitment that ESPN is going
to continue to make to the regular season. You saw some of those commitments
this year that you might not have seen in the past. You had rivalry week.
Well, we have always had, we had rivalry week on the men's side, but we saw it
on the women's side. We had a February Frenzy. We had Challenge Week. So ESPN
put some packages together that we have not had a part of on the women's side.
And they have committed moving forward when we implement Selection Monday,
they have made some commitments to regular season, because they understand how
important the growth and exposure for regular season is. They have talked
about some very specific things to us at this point. We will spend a great
time with ESPN and their leadership team in late June and we will do a
complete breakdown and they will talk us through exactly what their plans are.
Likewise, the committee at that time will talk with them about, here are some
expectations that not only does the committee have, but the entire women's
basketball community has. Lynn and I just finished a couple hours ago a
meeting with our Division I coaches, they had some things that they brought to
us relative to regular season and we'll go right with ESPN and visit with them
about that. The good thing that we have got with ESPN right now is we do have
a partnership. And it is a developing partnership. And it's a growing
relationship. They have the best interests of the championship in mind and
certainly the committee does as well.



Q. Part and parcel to the Monday deal, if conferences want to take advantage
and move their championships, everything finishes on Saturday into Sunday,
would you encourage that or would you rather them stay where they are to give
you more time now that you actually would have to work on the bracket.



LYNN PARKES: Well, I think that a lot of conferences will probably take that
opportunity and in some cases I think it could give them a little bit more
television opportunity. Although we would love to have that extra day, we feel
like we can get it done in the amount of time that we have had. So we'll be
glad to work with conferences.

SUE DONOHOE: We had quite a bit of support from conferences because we have
got a lot of women's tournaments that take place, they begin on Wednesday with
their early rounds, and Thursday, Friday, Saturday. Well, their attendance for
their conference tournament suffers because of that. By virtue of our move to
Selection Monday, that allows them to move their women's tournament a day
later, and certainly they see increased attendance numbers over the weekend.
So we hope that that's going to be beneficial from a conference tournament
standpoint as well.



Q. I guess two questions. One, for this being, as you put it, Sue, I think a
premier property for ESPN, women's basketball, were you disappointed that last
night it went head to head with Yankees/Red Sox on another ESPN affiliate,
first question. And second, what do you say to the west coast viewers and
coaches and even the Mountain Time Zone, that now is going to have a four
o'clock Monday afternoon selection show or five o'clock Monday, which is far
from prime time.



LYNN PARKES: Well, we factored all that in as we weighed this out. And what
the benefits were. Although we would love to all have a Sunday afternoon that
we could have all together, by moving to Monday and at the end of the day we
felt like that the benefits far outweighed the downside. And I know that the
west coast folks will work with us. They're pretty creative folks and they
will find ways to make it work as well.

SUE DONAHOE: And to speak to your first question, who won that ballgame.



Q. Yankees?



SUE DONOHOE: Okay. Well, you know, as far as ESPN programming, we certainly
were aware, I would saying ESPN feels this way and I think certainly the
women's basketball community feels this way. You got Sunday night, you got the
Yankees and the Sox and you got two of the best women's semi final games that
you could have. I mean, that's a great Sunday night for sports fans.

LYNN PARKES: That's why they make split screens.

SUE DONAHOE: I think that we have the strength in our championship and
certainly in the Women's Final Four to hold our own there. And I know that
there are a lot of baseball fans, myself being one of them, but my focus and I
think the women's basketball community and certainly the nation right now even
though we're opening day of baseball, I think folks are still into the March
Madness and the Final Four Frenzy. So I think we're strong enough to hold our
own.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Okay. I'm going to let them go. Okay. Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 4, 2005

  

### [Lindsay Bowen](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16353)

### [Kristin Haynie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15312)

### [Victoria Lucas-Perry](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16356)

### [Joanne P. McCallie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14490)

### [Kelli Roehrig](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16351)

### [Liz Shimek](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16355)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: All right. We'll start with an opening statement by the coach
and then questions for the players first.

_

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think it's a great match-up. I think Baylor is a
great team. I think we're a great team. I think both teams play very, very
hard. And I just think that excellent players, good balance, excellent post
play, excellent guard play. Just a lot of elements in the game and that's very
exciting. I think as two teams that have not been to that point before, I
think that adds even more excitement to the opportunity. So I just think it's
a great women's basketball game.



Q. I like to ask for both Kelli and for Liz, you faced some pretty good front
courts, not only in the tournament but in your conference I was wondering how
Blackmon and Young, from what you've seen on film, looking forward to them as
a forward tandem, how you feel about them.



KELLI ROEHRIG: They're very good post players. They work very well together.
As I think we work well together. So it's going to be a great match-up. It
should be really an interesting game in the front court.

LIZ SHIMEK: I think she answered it pretty well for herself. It's going to be
a great match-up, it's going to be a battle again. Its going to be a great
physical game again to the end.



Q. Lindsay, got a question for you about a moment that you guys shared at the
center court last night. With eight minutes to play you gathered every one
together; can you share with us what that was all about because it seemed like
you were at a do-or-die time of the game?



LINDSAY BOWEN: When was this?



Q. You gathered everybody together about eight minutes to go, it seemed you
were still trying to rally the troops I believe.



LINDSAY BOWEN: We were trying to refocus and regroup and say we have been in
these situations before and just stay tough until the end. And I think we
played a great game as a team and it was a great effort.



Q. This is for Kristin. Kristin, you didn't score your first basket until I
think 15 minutes, 15 and a half minutes left there in the second half; how
much did you feel personally responsible for the fact that you guys were down
double digits and you hadn't scored.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Everyone struggles, everyone has their bad games and that's
why we have a great team, a well-balanced team. Five or six of us can score
double figures any given night. That's what teammates are for and they stepped
up and did a great job.



Q. Lindsay, what are going to be your keys to the game and how can y'all beat
Baylor?



LINDSAY BOWEN: Just they're a balanced team like we are, and you can't key on
a couple players. So it's going to be rebounding for sure, hitting people and
defense, really getting after them, ball pressure, so they can't see inside
and it's just going to be battle.



Q. This is for any and all of the players. There's going to be a lot of green
in here tomorrow night, your coach referred to that last night; do you think
you have ever seen so much green in one place?



VICTORIA LUCAS-PERRY: Yeah, I think we saw that kind of green at the Ohio
State game. We had a lot of support there. A lot of fans there supporting us.
So I think we have seen this kind of crowd before. It will be great to know
that there's only one color. (Laughter.)

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: It's simple. (Laughter.)



Q. Question for Liz. The Baylor players have said all year long they thought,
yeah, we can get to this point. They're still right now kind of saying, wow,
pinching themselves that they're really here. Do you guys feel a little bit
the same way?



LIZ SHIMEK: Ever since summer we have been dreaming big, Final Fours, pursue
championships in everything that we do. And it's not a surprise to us because
we have worked so hard all year and over the course of years for all of us and
it's a step for us and we know we belong here because we worked so hard.



Q. People like to make a lot about the teams that have been to the Final Fours
before, especially the Tennessees, UCONNs, the teams like that. What does it
take for a team to know it can beat a Tennessee and to feel confident they can
come back against a Tennessee and not act as if it's never been there before?



KELLI ROEHRIG: I'll get it. I think that all season, I mean have you seen our
schedule? We played some big time teams in the conference season and all
season long. And we beat some really great teams. I think that really comes to
show come tournament time, to be able to beat the Tennessee, and those kind of
teams.



Q. I think y'all have probably played the underdog role pretty well this year
and so has Baylor; is there a way for both of you to be underdogs tomorrow or
who do you think people will be rooting for?



VICTORIA LUCAS-PERRY: I think at this point in the season it doesn't matter
who people are rooting for. We just know ourselves as a team that we're going
to go out there and do what we do.



Q. This is for all the players. We asked Baylor earlier to wrap up their
Coach's personality in one word or in one phrase and most of them said
"intense" for Kim Mulkey-Robertson. I wonder if each of you could do the same
thing for your Coach.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Sum up your Coach in one word, please. (Laughter.) I think it's
supposed to be a team decision because she wanted you to come with up with
your own individual one-word answer. One word or one phrase of how you
describe your Coach.

_

LINDSAY BOWEN: Competitive.

KELLI ROEHRIG: A heartful, competitive, intense woman. (Laughter.) It's
everything together. I mean she's everything. She in life and in basketball.
Extremely intense, just after it. So...

KRISTIN HAYNIE: Not only does she care for us on the court she cares very much
for us off the court and wants to make sure that we're having a great life.
We're not down or whatever. She's there for us if we're struggling off the
court.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Anything else to add?

_

LINDSAY BOWEN: Just very competitive, intense, fierce. The list can go on and
on and on and there's one word that I can't say.

LIZ SHIMEK: Fiercely fun. I said fiercely fun.



Q. This is for any of the players, two-part question. First off, we know how
tight you guys are with the men's team. Did you hear from any of the men's
players or maybe even Coach Izzo, and second, a lot of the fans kind of think
it's fate in this instance that the men won here back in 2000, that they think
that you guys can do it again five years later.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Yeah, Calvin, after the game he sent me a text message and he
left a voice mail. He was just really happy for us and he's like "bring home
that championship for us." And they're behind us, they're cheering us a
hundred percent.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the student-athletes? All right. I'm letting them
go to their break-out sessions. We'll take questions for the coach.

_ 

Q. Both you and Baylor play some tough non-conference games in addition to
conference schedule. How important is that like the game against Connecticut
in preparing you for a Final Four?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I just think the more times you do things, the
better off you are. And the more you can repeat them, and I think definitely
at Connecticut is a very difficult place to play. I think that was a big game
for us to rise to that occasion. At Notre Dame was a big game to rise again.
Minnesota is a terrific team. Beating them at Minnesota under adverse
circumstances and being able to beat Minnesota three times I think said a lot
to our team's perseverance. There's a lot of games like that when you look at
Stanford and you look at Vandy and so forth. That's the tournament. But I just
think that the more you go after it, the more great teams you play, the more
comfortable you are in any environment. And this game is about really our
team. Playing 40 minutes and doing what we want to do and that's really what
it's about for us.



Q. Can you talk a little bit about rebounding tomorrow and what you need Kelli
specifically to do?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Get some. Our rebounding was horrendous against
Tennessee. Our team has already been informed of that fact this morning at
film and it was very poor and that's unacceptable.



Q. The BC game and Notre Dame games early, what did that do for your team the
way you won and was that when you started to sense where this team had that
quality to win games like yesterday?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think bringing up the BC was a great thought. We
played them at home and it was a great basketball game and I do think you get
a sense of how to do things. Our team in overtime is undefeated and has been
very strong for two years. Again, I think it's the repetition, going after it,
that was a great game. BC is a terrific team and that probably kickstarted
some of the things that we did after that. There have been so many great
games, I just -- there's been so many, it's unbelievable how many great games
there have been.



Q. The teams are so similar, from their schedules to where their programs were
five years ago to the coach's personalities; who kind of wears the tag "Team
of Destiny" tomorrow night?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think you could argue that for both teams. Nobody
-- I mean -- I mean both teams at this point are teams of destiny, equally so.
It's just a battle. It's just a 40-minute battle or whatever it takes. Maybe
it's not 40, I don't know. But that's all it is. It's just a battle by two
teams. But I wouldn't argue for either one. They're both great stories.



Q. What's your biggest concern about Baylor?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: You have to say the great post players inside and
what they do. They're very, very good. Very quick and athletic. Rebounding is
a great concern of ours simply because we didn't do well against Tennessee in
that area. Ball pressure, there's a lot of things that we need to pick up. I
really think we played 25 minutes of our style against Tennessee and then I'm
not sure what we did the rest of the time. And it cost us greatly, as you saw.
And we were able to battle back from it. But probably those areas.



Q. Can you talk about what kind of problems Emily Niemann presents especially
the way she's been able to go inside and outside?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, what an X factor, what a great player. I think
she was the difference maker in the LSU game. And I think her inside/outside
ability is very good for them and very versatile and we're going to have to
locate her all the time and know where she is and give her nothing on the
outside and make sure when she cuts to the inside that she's guarded also. But
I definitely think she's a very interesting story and I think she is a key to
their game as we have seen against LSU.



Q. It's been kind of striking how Liz is your leading scorer and rebounder.
It's like nobody wants to mention her or talk about her. They want to talk
about the other players. Have you noticed that and just talk about what you've
appreciated about her the last few years, what she's meant to your team and
maybe even last night because she had a real good first half where you might
have gotten blown out of water; just talk about that.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Liz Shimek is one of the best four players in the
country, hands down. You can't even begin to argue that or argue against that
fact. She's -- you know, people haven't covered our team all year in the sense
of getting to know our team intimately. And so we're well balanced as a team
and so perhaps she could be overlooked. But she certainly is not overlooked in
anyone's mind, particularly opponents. She just is so strong and she's so
tough and she's such a great competitor. What I love most about her is just
who she is as a person. She's one of the most honest hard-working people
you're ever going to meet and she wants to rise to the occasion all the time.
And she's just the absolute best to coach. She deserves it all, that's for
sure.



Q. You and Kim have unfortunately made building a program look easy. Being
that you both got here in five years, has something changed in the culture of
the women's game that has made these sort of meteoric rises possible a lot
faster than people thought?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think that it's kind of hard to answer. I just
think the game is growing in all areas, including potential recruits and
opportunities. I think a lot of women today are excited about what they can do
athletically. I guess people -- I just commend Kim so much for her recruiting
efforts and what she's done at Baylor. I think that the game is just getting
more interesting in every aspect, whether it's more great recruits, head
coaches and different opportunities for kids to play for. I think some kids
are not -- are looking at different places more because they're seeing more
fan support. Now at Michigan State we can show a picture of 14,000 people in
our game against Ohio State. That's bound to attract a few recruits right
there. So I just think that there's a growth thing going on and perhaps you're
seeing some of that in this final.



Q. People talk about these two teams being in the Final Four as proof of their
being parity and whatever you want to call it. Are you guys sort of
beneficiaries of parity in the sense that there's more good teams out there
for you to play during the course of the season and it allows you to get more
experience where maybe 10 years ago even the toughest schedule in the country
wasn't going to feature as many good teams night in, night out?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I'm sure that there's so many great teams out there.
There are, so many more. And the coaching is better, the players are better,
the schedules are better. Everything about it has taken an upswing. Again I
think it's just getting started really and it will continue and there will be
many more Michigan State, Baylor stories coming.



Q. Sherrie Cole said a couple years ago when Oklahoma made its debut in the
Final Four, that the important thing is what the next four or five years
brought to her program, especially in terms of recruiting. I wonder if you
could address that and also do you feel like your program is, can and needs to
recruit on a national basis or can you be national contenders mostly
recruiting in the Michigan and Ohio area?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, my gosh, there's so much talent in those areas.
I think that we do nationally recruit, but if we can go 30 miles, that's how
far we're going to go because I can't stand recruiting. And so I will take the
shortest distance to a recruit. So I just think there's great talent in the
Midwest. I think if you can get great talent in the Midwest why would you go
somewhere else? But if somebody else was very excited about Michigan State,
and it was out in California, or somewhere, great, I would go there too. I
guess the point is you just want to have a life, you want to be balanced and
you want to do the very best you can. I think that's one of the attractive
things that kids want to play at Michigan State is because they definitely
know we got balance. We have a lot of fun and I think the overall theme is to
get more kids attracted to your school than you have scholarships for and then
I think you're in a really excellent situation.



Q. You mentioned a couple times about the balance that you have on your team.
Is it hard in today's environment to get kids to think that way and how did
you go about trying to evolve into the team that you have?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, we just couldn't think too much about it, to
be honest with you. We needed to get a whole heck of a lot better and people
needed to play out their roles. And so it just was, it just kind of evolved
from what was needed. I think kids today, you can coach anybody. I tell you
what, kids today have a lot of problems; on the computer too much, they dress
weirdly and do all sorts of funky things, but I have never found a kid that
you couldn't coach. You can coach everybody. There's something inside of every
kid that you can reach to. And I don't care what anyone says, kids are still
kids. It's the adults that are the problem, frankly. I wouldn't want to coach
adults.



Q. Tell us your version to recruiting, there's legislation in the pipeline
that would change part of that process particularly as regards to AAU. Can you
talk about like what your involvement, what your theory is about AAU, club
teams and so forth and what you think that legislation, what effect that would
have if it goes through?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, I think it is a hard subject. I'm not a
regulation person, myself. I like sort of a free-market approach that comes
from my husband, I guess. But I do think that it's overdone with many kids. I
know for example my own daughter would never play a full year of a sport like
that and go crazy with all these schedules and these games. We can do it at
different times of the year, but I think it's important to have a balance, a
healthy balance of what you're doing with children and so it's a tough fee,
because you know I hate to regulate, I just hate to do that. But there has to
be a balance. I think that there's some things that are overdone but then you
have to credit AAU for the national exposure and tournaments and the
opportunity. So I don't know. I'm kind of just trying to think through that. I
don't really have an answer for you today, except to say that it's a real
issue, one that needs to be dealt with and I don't know if regulation is the
answer.



Q. If a program wants to get serious about being competitive in women's
basketball, what advice would you give it?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Money. Lots of it. Pour it in. It just takes a whole
lot of financial resources to get it done from what you're going to do to
attract coaching staff. We have a fabulous staff at Michigan State and it
makes all the difference in the world. We have a top level coaching staff. We
have top flight facilities. They're the best in the country. It's easy for us
to sell that. So we're very fortunate with all that we have and it does take
resources, resources are a big key.



Q. To take a short diversion, today Sue Gunter got voted into the Hall of
Fame. Do you have any recollections or did you ever play against her as a
player or a coach?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yeah, I coached against Sue when I was at Auburn.
She's a terrific woman; I have the utmost respect for her. She served as
reference for me in my application for my first head coaching job at Maine.
And she is somebody who I just think is just an incredible pioneer of the
game. She's done amazing things for the women's game all the way around. And
there's nothing more fitting than her to receive that award.



Q. It seemed like after the game you commended everybody on your team and
you've talked about the team effort. Can you kind of go through your starters
and what makes each one of them click and how they all put this together.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Based on last night's performance or just overall?
Oh, well, okay. Kristin Haynie point guard, one of the best in the country. I
would say she's one of the top four point guards in the country. It's because
she does so much. She always comes prepared. She struggled at some times in
that game, but of course got a critical steal that was pretty much a game-
decider. That's typical Kristin. She's always going to be there. She's always
going to come around as a competitor. Lindsay Bowen, terrific player,
developed her game, she's become more versatile. Her defense has gotten a lot
better and she's just the biggest fighter you're going to ever see and the
biggest competitor. When she's shooting as a competitor, she's incredibly
accurate. Victoria Lucas-Perry, as a sophomore I thought played with senior
poise. One X factor, difference-maker all the way. Throughout the year she's
done the types of things that you witnessed last night. I talked about Liz
Shimek being one of the top four players in the country. She can play inside
and out, she's one of the hardest-working people I know. Kelli Roehrig, just
she's so comfortable with who she is. She knows who she is, she loves who she
is and she goes out there and intimidates people much more than people
understand. Her size and her ability to intimidate is very real. I think that
those five together add a lot of different elements to make things go.



Q. I think that it would probably be fair to say that most of the people in
this building were not dressed in green and were expecting to come back
tomorrow night to see a LSU-Tennessee game. What would you say to those people
who would say this is a surprising result to see these two teams in the Final
Four?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, I would tell them to find the greenest T-shirt
they could wear and come back. There is great Tennessee fans that I was taking
pictures with after the game and it's difficult. Nobody wants to be out of a
tournament. But, boy, you might as well make good on your tickets. I think all
the Tennessee fans -- listen my husband is from Chattanooga, Tennessee, if
that helps. You know. Seems to me they should come back and support the green.
But it's just, for them I just think the game's growing and it's exciting and
many people did enjoy the game, even despite the outcome, if it did go against
them. And talk about great games for women's basketball on national TV and
there's something to be said for that, that's a very good thing.



Q. You were talking about your days at Maine; what do you remember about Ian
McCall and have you had a chance to catch up with him this weekend?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I have talked to Ian, he's been -- he's had a
terrific career as an athletic director. He was not at Maine when I was. He
was just leaving. So I never worked with Ian. But he's very, very good and
very, very good at what he does and I know he loves being at Baylor.



Q. I want to just take you back if you would to when were you coaching at
Maine before all those standing-room-only crowds in Durham and Burlington and
everywhere else and now you're here, how does this feel for a down-east girl
coming back doing this?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: It just feels great. I love being from Maine. Maine
is one of the most beautiful states and the people are incredible and I'm very
grateful to Mike Plasick, the first athletic director that ever hired me at
age 26. That was a long time ago. And I'm very grateful to the Maine people,
they supported me throughout my career, and I have followed the e-mails I get,
the communication I get from former Maine players and Maine people, has been
absolutely incredible. You never forget where you're from and I just am proud
to be a Mainer.



Q. All year long you've talked about one game at a time, no game is bigger
than the other. Can you really do that with the championship game?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, I think it's important that we just stay true
to how we have gotten here and how we have gotten here has been to be awful
worried about ourselves and playing our basketball and being motivated by the
fact that basically we have only got one more game to really get after some
things and there are summer workouts. So it seems to me that we should get a
few of our goals with a game that we have left. And I think that's the
important thing is to be true to who we are. And this team needs to play this
game for them.



Q. Going back to recruiting, what did you sell your players on when you were
recruiting them and who was your hardest sell?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I sold them on pursuing championships, meaning
getting bunches of them. Collecting hardware. Trying to go after the men a
little bit, because they have so much. Sold them on Michigan State as a fine
institution, sold them on the people at Michigan State. Sold them on our
facilities and our support and all those things. Hardest sell -- I don't know.
It just seemed like none of them were. We worked hard to get all of our kids,
but it didn't seem like any of them were a hard sell. I really believe that
you kind of go where you're supposed to and you kind of recruit who fits you
and it kind of -- some of it happens very naturally. So I can't say that -- we
didn't have any holdouts. These guys came on board pretty convincingly.



Q. We in the media are quick to try and look or anoint new faces to a game.
You and Kim are fairly similar, I think, in your approaches. Do you guys bring
anything quote unquote new to the game or in a sense are you both kind of old
fashioned coaches and you've --



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: We're too young to be old fashioned. We can't be old
fashioned yet. I don't know. I think we bring just a lot of energy. The game
now is so -- everything is so close. You look at statistics and everything,
everything is so close that there's got to be intangibles that make up the
difference. I think that me and Kim, you see the energy that we put into our
teams. I think that we have a responsibility. I think we're similar -- I don't
think that either one of us have an ego. I don't think we care. So sometimes
we'll act up a little bit or get feisty, whatever you want to call it, it's
not about how we look, it's not the glamor coach approach. It's what can you
do for your team today, fundamentally. And I think that we both probably share
those thoughts.



Q. What can a coach do just in general, especially in a game or in preparation
in terms of giving confidence to a team or maybe the coach has kind of maybe
been through this before but the players haven't.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, a coach, first of all, just provides that
belief, the belief in them. And you know these players very, very well. You
can read players' moods, you can get a sense of where they're at, and what
they're affected by. And it's important to be the leader and be up front about
what's going to happen on the floor. That's just what you got to do. You got
to, no matter what, no matter what the circumstances are, everybody can do
great things when it's easy and things are going easy. When things are hard,
that's when the true character comes out. And I think coaches have to
exemplify that all the time. And you just got to, frankly, be there for them.



Q. You talked about the rebounding, but can you talk about how important that
whole match up inside is with Blackmon and Young?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: We will not stop them, you just try to slow them
down and maybe take away some things that they like to do. They're both great
players. They play hard, they're just very, very good players. So no one's
going to stop them. You're just going to try to do a few things and maybe make
a difference. Maybe where they catch the ball, how they turn, which side they
can go. This type of thing defensively. And I do think that those are great
match-ups and it will be fun to watch.



Q. As the mother of two young children, how difficult has it been to balance
your family and basketball, especially during the NCAA post season with all
the demands on your time and how have your kids enjoyed this experience?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, that's a great question. Because in the last
three weeks I tell you I'm really worried about the dog too and the bunny.
It's been rough. I have not seen the dog or the bunny or the children. But the
good thing about the children is they travel. So I do see them. Have I had
great time with them, lots of time? Absolutely not. I miss them. So I get to
go see them and that's a great thing. I'm very lucky that my daughter is 10
and just is way into this. So you surround them with cousins, you surround
them with family and friends and they sort of are the surrogates for you while
you're completely unavailable. And I just simply tell them that, "mommy is
coaching. I know I can't listen to you, I know I can't do this for you, I
can't do that for you. But, boy, won't it be fun when we go to Disneyland or
something." (Laughter.). I don't know. You do the best you can. It's a great
problem to have though to be in this situation, that's for sure.



Q. You mentioned your coaching staff a minute ago. Did Al Brown and Semeka
Randall, the fact that they have those Tennessee ties help you at all in
preparation or during the course of the game against Tennessee?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Gosh, they didn't do a good job if we went down 16,
did we. No, I'm kidding, that's a joke. But Al and Semeka are terrific. Al in
particular with all his years of experience, but absolutely they could help us
with Tennessee. Absolutely.



Q. Coach, why don't you like recruiting?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, I think that the part -- I should qualify
that. I love the part when the family and the student-athlete are on campus. I
love that part. And if that's all recruiting was, I would be really, really
happy. But when you talk about these text messages, you talk about e-mail, you
talk about these needy kids that need to be called all the time; when you talk
about the way you try to sit closer so the kid can see you, you know, and try
to elbow your way amongst your colleagues. I'm not into it. I think it's
superficial. And I think that if -- I'm hoping that Michigan State, that we
could be so good one day that they could just know us by watching us be
successful and say I want to go there" and then come visit. And my life would
be a lot happy year and I would probably be a coach a lot longer.



Q. Do you think that the text messaging should be disallowed?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yes.



Q. Do you think that the text messaging should be disallowed and why? And also
saying, I mean, the younger the players I've spoken to love it. They
absolutely love it.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Of course, because their kids, they're silly kids.
They don't make decisions, that's why they're kids. Of course they love it.
This is stuff that takes them away from an academics, this is stuff that takes
them away from responsibility. I mean, all that stuff's got to go. In my
opinion, they got to be kids first of all. They got to learn how to make
decisions and choices. And I just think the whole thing is very silly. It's
gotten to be a very immature thing. And I think that we could do well to move
to a higher ground with it.



Q. It was asked of the players if they had heard from the other Michigan State
men's players. Did you get any advice from Coach Izzo or has he been in
contact with you and how well do the programs relate?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, they relate very well with Tom and his staff.
They're terrific people and they have been with us from day one. Tom has
called many different times. If he hasn't gotten me directly on my cell,
because I don't really answer my cell phone at this time, then he's gotten
Shelly Applebaum or one of our administrators to say hello or we -- you know,
faxes, cards, all those things. We're very fortunate to have a situation where
we have just both want to do really, really well. We're on different journeys.
They're trying to go repeat and we're trying to go after our first time
opportunity. So it's a little bit different story line, but it's still feels
like we're all working towards the same thing.



Q. I saw in the press guide a picture of you with your mountain climbing
expedition.



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: That's my husband's.



Q. What went in the decision to do that and is this the kind of thing you like
to do in the off season, challenges, physical challenges?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, it was my husband. I think that you might have
looked at it quickly. My husband John McCallie climbed Mount Kilimanjaro this
summer with John L. Smith, our football Coach and a group of Spartans, maybe
10 or 12. And it was very important for John to get out and do that. Something
he's always wanted to do. I stayed back with the kids. So I played my role out
there pretty well. So it was a great experience. Something that really a lot
of all Spartans across the world got a feel for in that climb. Even on our
shooting chart we have got Kilimanjaro in the back, like a little mountain
where we talked about our climb. And so I always felt that climb sort of
started a lot of what's going on at Michigan State and it was very motivating
to a lot of us.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: All right. I'm letting her go. Thank you very much.

_

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 4, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Chameka Scott](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13905)

### [Abiola Wabara](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16354)

### [Chelsea Whitaker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14506)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to let Kim make an opening statement and then let's
direct your questions as a group to the athletes as we're going to have plenty
of time in here with Kim after we release them. So Kim, if you would like to
talk about tomorrow's match-up at all and then we'll go to questions for the
student-athletes.

_

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, the opening statement is there will be a new
national champion that hasn't won one before, one way or the other, and two
teams will be wearing green. How is that for a little bit of -- I'm trying to
wake up here.



Q. Chameka, y'all were probably both, Michigan State and y'all, considered
underdogs coming in. Who is the underdog now?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It would have to be us, they got a 1 seed.

CHAMEKA SCOTT: I guess we still have a 2 in front of our name but I think the
match-up is going to be good no matter what. It's the national championship
and you want to consider that the best two teams in the nation so no one is
really the underdog. It's just about going out and making the big plays and
seeing who comes out on top.



Q. Stephanie, I know you have seen some strong front courts in Big 12 play and
other parts of this tournament; how does their inside tandem of Roehrig and
Shimek compare to what you played against?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: We're looking at them, and they look pretty physical. Both
of them are, Kelli Roehrig is a big wide body and Shimek is a pretty physical
player so they have definitely have different games. Shimek can shoot it
outside as well. So we got to look and see what their strengths are and guard
them toward their weaknesses.



Q. Chelsea and Chameka, even last night after the national semi-finals you
guys had that even demeanor to you as you have during the whole tournament and
during the whole season. Before the season started did you guys expect to be
here tonight on the eve of the national championship?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Yeah, we expected to, but there's a long road in between our
dreams and actuality. So it's a blessing to be here and we just know that we
have more work to do.

CHAMEKA SCOTT: I agree with Chelsea. In the back of your head you've been
thinking about it as far back as June and as it got closer we started to
realize more and more that it could actually happen. So I think that part of
the success that we have had is just focusing each game one at a time and not
looking too far ahead. Now that we're finally here it's so close and it's too
close to lose focus now. So we're just going to consider it as just another
game and come in with our heads right.



Q. Stephanie, when you were being recruited, Baylor was in the middle of a
20-loss season. Can you talk about what Coach said, what she said to you to
convince you to come to the program and from that point could you have
believed that you would get to this point four years later?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: She just kind of basically embraced me and said it's not
going to be easy, you're going to have to roll your sleeves up and work,
coming from where the program was to where it is now. But I definitely felt
that it was a possibility and I believed in what she said and what she --
well, I believed in what she could do. I knew that she could do it and I just
wanted to jump on board and try to help.



Q. Sophia, could you talk a little bit about your basketball background, just
how long you've been playing, maybe what you consider your strengths and
weaknesses and how much maybe further you think you can go.



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Don't tell him your weaknesses. (Laughter.) We have got
a game tomorrow. (Laughter.)

SOPHIA YOUNG: I've been playing basketball for six years now. I don't know, I
guess my strength is just my athletic abilities and I don't know, hopefully I
get to go farther. I don't know how far I'll go, but, I don't know.



Q. Maybe the seniors could address this. When the season began people were
picking Texas and K State to win the Big 12 and Kendra Webber and Tiffanie
Jackson as Player of the Year. When did you guys sense or really feel like
this was a national championship caliber team? Has it been just recently
during this 19-game win streak or was it early on something you believed and
it's sort of developed.



CHELSEA WHITAKER: I felt like last year when we made Sweet 16 and we still had
some loose ends to get together but I felt like we were going to be a
competitor next year and we had potential to make it to the national
championship. But as far as Texas and K State and everybody else being ranked
in front of us, we kind of liked the view from the back seat. It takes a
little pressure off of you and when you do upset someone, it's bigger news. So
we're used to being an underdog and just like we'll finish the season being
the underdog, so we're comfortable with that.



Q. Chelsea, this is for you. You said at each one of the regionals you just
really can't believe that you're here. This is like a dream. It really hasn't
hit you. Is it pretty much the same now that you're on the eve of the national
championship game.



CHELSEA WHITAKER: It's the same now and that's why I feel like we're playing
good basketball because we're real humble about our situation and we're
appreciative of each round that we make it to. And we don't ever underestimate
the opponent that we're playing and we think that puts us in a position to win
the game.



Q. For all the ladies, if you had one word to describe your coach, what would
it be?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: Tenacious.

CHAMEKA SCOTT: Intense.

ABIOLA WABARA: Intense.

SOPHIA YOUNG: Intense.

CHELSEA WHITAKER: Intense. (Laughter.)

KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I'm waiting for the last. (Laughter.).

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Four out of five. (Laughter.)

_ 

Q. For Abby. Wednesday morning the season is over. You guys are almost -- you
have that demeanor again, that you want to continue playing? Do you want to go
on even after tomorrow night?



ABIOLA WABARA: Yeah. But, it's over and if you finish in a good way maybe
we'll rest a little bit. But, yeah.

SOPHIA YOUNG: Good answer.



Q. Chelsea, what do you guys do with that intensity that Coach brings? How
much does that drive you?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: It drives a lot because if it doesn't drive us then we'll be
sitting next to her, so -- (Laughter.)

CHELSEA WHITAKER: And she's, she doesn't, you know, she only accepts the best
from us and if we're not putting our best out there I'm sure she will tell us,
she will tell y'all also screaming at us. So it just makes us a better team.
And it just drives us to want to do better.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: If there are no further questions for the girls I'll let them go
to their break-out sessions. And now we'll take questions for the coach.

_ 

Q. Who do you feel wears the destiny tag better tomorrow night, yourself or
Michigan State?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I'm not sure how to answer that. I can just tell you
both teams deserve to be in the championship game. It's good for women's
basketball that you will crown a new champion tomorrow. And both teams are
similar in that they play with a lot of energy. They dive on the floor for
loose balls, they never get rattled. The difference is they will play zone and
we'll play man.



Q. Could you -- I know you probably told this story a hundred times but retell
the story about how you discovered Sophia. Was she a junior or senior in high
school when you first saw her and what were your first impressions?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: The first time I saw her was the beginning of her senior
year, she played her sophomore year in high school and because of the
Louisiana High School Athletic Association Foreign Exchange Rules she had to
sit out her junior year and her senior year she played. Jennifer Roberts, my
assistant, is from the same high school, the same area, Shreveport, Louisiana.
Her father was an AAU Coach there, her brother was in school with Sophia, and
when Sophia came over as a foreign exchange student, everyone at that school I
guess recommended to Sophia that she play basketball and she wanted to learn
the game. And she contacted Jennifer's father and he turned her down three or
four times because he wasn't coaching anymore. And he said after about the
fourth phone call his heart just told him he needed to go meet this young
lady. And he went out there and he casually mentioned it to his daughter. And
she said, "Dad says we need to go it to Shreveport, this kid's a diamond in
the rough." And we drove over there and it took me about five minutes and I
said, "Let's don't say one word to anybody." I said, "We need to sign her
before anybody knows anything about her."



Q. What was it about her?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Just athleticism; run the floor, block shots, leap out
of the gym. She didn't know the game, she probably didn't know one post move
at that time. And to watch her progress the last three years we have had her,
she now knows post moves, she can shoot facing the basket, she has tremendous
leaping ability. Her speed and quickness, her lateral speed and quickness, as
you saw in the LSU game last night, she will bait you into throwing it to
where you think an open player is and she will quickly get over there and
deflect a pass or steal a ball.



Q. A little bit off the game, but looking to the future, how do you feel about
the three-point line and the talks of moving that, what have you, particularly
in regards to international play, which you have some history with and it
seems like all of this is directed towards that as opposed to the college
game.



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think three things have changed the women's game from
when I played. One is more television exposure, two is going to the smaller
basketball and three is the three-point line. I like it where it is. I don't
particularly care if they change anything. So if that answers your question. I
don't think there's a need to change. I think that Ed Stites put the three-
point line in and what a great gentleman he was. I got to know him through USA
Basketball. And none of us thought at the time when he brought that subject up
that it would be something we would all encourage and now that it's been
brought into the game, both men's and women's game, it's a welcome addition.



Q. Could you talk specifically about Abby's story, about how you got her and
then how you have sort of put this team together from some unusual roots?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Abiola Wabara is from Parma, Italy. Her aunt Phoebe, and
I'm not seen even sure of Phoebe's last name, but Phoebe was in Truitt
Seminary, she was in school at Truitt Seminary at Baylor University, she
emailed my assistant Coach, Johnny Derrick, as you can imagine, we get a lot
of emails from parents and grandparents who think their children and
grandchildren are the greatest things since sliced bread. But something about
this email stood out with Johnny and he arranged that when Abby came to the
States to visit her aunt, to just please bring her by and let us meet her. And
she brought her in our office, because of NCAA rules not allowing you to have
a tryout, and she had no game film with her, I shook her hand and her hand was
very large and I thought, "Hmm, that's a good sign." And then when she stood
up, she was cut and just had a great body. And we got more information out of
her. I then picked up the phone and called Janice Lawrence, who played with me
at Louisiana Tech and in the Olympics, she played professionally in Italy for
15 years. Abby did not play professionally; she played club ball and I thought
surely she has to have heard of this young lady if she's any good. And Janice
did know her and Janice said, yes, you need to sign her. That's how Abby got
to Baylor.



Q. It was easy to see last night when a question came up about Baylor's
background that you were just tired of the question, you didn't want to hear
it. What is it about these questions that bother you right now?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It's old news. It happened two years ago. Nothing else
can be written that has not already been written.



Q. Does not what's happening now feel good for you?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Oh, we would feel good rather that happened or not. And
I just think the focus needs to get away from there. The focus needs to be on
what we're doing now without mentioning that. That's old news. It's just old.



Q. Everybody's saying that since there are two new teams in here this is a
sign of parity. But what is the parity formula? How much of it is talent
getting spread around and if talent is getting spread around how much of it is
the fact that y'all have become better pitchmen and salesmen and is there some
other ingredient in there that's helping talent get more spread out?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think it's the universities are emphasizing women's
basketball more. They're paying higher salaries, they're getting better
coaches in there. And as you well know in any business that when you have
higher salaries, you have higher demands and coaches are working extremely
hard to build programs now. Players see now that they don't have to go all
across the country just to go to the powers to be, that they can stay at home
in a regional area possibly and let their families see them play. And that's
good for women's basketball. Parity is good for any sport, but it's especially
good for our sport right now.



Q. With the WNBA more and more part of the equation now of basketball, what do
you think Sophia's time in the tournament has done for her stock there?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, I think her tournament and hopefully her career
will basically help Sophia make a living doing this some day. And to think
that she's only been playing her fifth or sixth year of basketball, you have
to believe she's only going to get better and better. As I said earlier, you
don't coach speed and quickness; you recruit it.



Q. You and Joanne both are mother's with two young kids, son and a daughter,
you both took over your programs in 2000. This seems like a lot of
similarities. I wonder how well do you know her and if you could sort of talk
about maybe the similarities between the two of you.



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I don't know what her state of her program was in. I
would think Michigan State was not as far down the totem pole as Baylor, but I
stand to be corrected. I would think Michigan State had had a little bit of
success in women's basketball. So I don't know what kind of program she took
over. I know the job that she's done there has been remarkable. It's just
great. There's no greater feeling in the world as a mother than to turn around
and have your children and your husband sharing in anything good that happens
in your career, because they certainly get the brunt of anything that's bad
when you go home or when you're, you know, at a loss for words after a defeat.
Joanne, the first time I met her, she was an assistant at Auburn under Joe
Champion. And then I followed her career as I do and as anybody does for each
other in this profession on where she was and when she went to Maine and the
job she did there. And she just is a very personable person. The first time I
met her she is just bubbly. She's got a lot of energy and you would think that
you had known her all your life when you first meet her.



Q. What's your routine today and how close are you able to keep it to any
other day before a game this season?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, spending from 11:00 to 1 o'clock doing all this
stuff is not close to routine for us. We won't get on the practice floor until
1:00, something, but we were required to be here at 11:00. So that's not
routine. We will do what's asked of us. We will get off our feet this
afternoon. We will watch more film this evening and have a dinner. We'll try
to keep it as routine as possible, but you know that this is a happening now,
this is an event. And we're going to do our part to promote the women's game.



Q. Speaking of watching film, how late were you up last night or this morning
watching film?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I went to bed at 3:30.



Q. Did you get a chance to watch the second half of the Michigan State game?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No, sir, I did not.



Q. Did you see it on film yet?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Yes, I did.



Q. What was your reaction to their comeback?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It was very similar to ours. They never got rattled. I
thought that they played with a lot of purpose. I thought that their energy,
even when behind at a moment when they might have doubted themselves, they
never let it creep in or happen. And just commendable. I was out in the
parking lot doing a live interview and they hollered that Michigan State came
back and won. And that's how I found out about it.



Q. You've had a few other things on your plate the past month but has anyone
in your world been talking about the new Title 9 policy that's come out from
the education department?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No.



Q. The other day you talked a little bit about coming over from Louisiana Tech
to Baylor as far as Leon starting that. Can you talk about the role that Sonja
Hogg played over at Baylor, because that was the other piece?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: When I was being recruited out of high school Louisiana
Tech had made its first appearance in a Final Four. Sonja Hogg was the Head
Coach and Leon was the assistant coach. When they began recruiting me they
quickly told me their roles. And Sonja was the most wonderful recruiter, she
worked hard at it. She stayed on the telephone, she called so much I had to
tell my mother to tell her I would call her back. Back in those days you
didn't have the limited phone calls; it was unlimited. And she did her job and
was one of the best recruiters in the women's game back in the early '80s.
When we signed at LSU Tech and all of us that played there will tell you, they
did a remarkable job, both Sonja and Leon, at understanding each other's
strengths and weaknesses and making it work. Leon did the majority of the
coaching, Sonja did all of the recruiting and we went to four Final Fours and
won two national championships. So I got a dose of two very, very good people
that were legends of the game.



Q. Speaking of recruiting, you didn't have a lot to sell when you first got
there, the last two years, should it be easier now for you to recruit?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It will open some doors, but it's not going to walk in
and say "Oh, I want to come to Baylor." I mean there's too many great programs
out there. We have continued to get in doors that we couldn't get into five
years ago. But we're still going to have to continue to be selective and we're
going to have to make sure we're not wasting our time in recruiting. I don't
like coming in second and third. Some coaches get a kick out of being in
somebody's top five. That doesn't do much for me. I want to go in there and I
want to get the players that can come and help us compete and win. Recruiting
is the life blood of all college coaches. It is some of the greatest joys come
from recruiting and some of the biggest disappointments come from recruiting.
We will continue to do what we have done. I hope that this will open up some
eyes on the national scene where maybe we haven't been able to go before.



Q. It seems like second best has never been good for you in anything; where
does that fire and passion come from?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think you're born with it. I think that -- I have a
younger sister and she and I are 11 months apart and we're opposites. You're
born with it. I was brought up in a family of middle income, self-employed
parents that provided for their children, did not spoil their children, were
very proud of their children, and I watched my parents work. I watched them
leave their work and support their children at any of their events. I think
back to the days when integration hit, when I was in the second grade and the
greatest decision my parents ever made was to keep me in public schools. And
from that day forward I learned a lot about life. It's a remarkable story,
because when you're in second grade, what are you, eight years old? And you
come home and you ask your parents what's going on? And they explain to you in
as easy a terms as they can on what's happening in the world, that impacted my
life far more than anybody will ever realize. It was absolutely the greatest
decision they ever made for me.



Q. If a program decides it wants to get serious about being competitive in
women's basketball, what advice would you give it?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: It starts at the top. You better have a president that
knows athletics. You better have a president that understands coaches and then
you better work for an athletic director that will give you the tools and the
resources to get it done. And yet be patient and let you build it.



Q. Your players use the word "intensity," and I've heard you talk about your
team playing with emotion and you coach with emotion, is that something that
you teach when they get to Baylor or is it the kind of players you recruit or
what combination?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I don't -- I think when I'm recruiting they probably
know that before I walk in the door, my coaching style. I don't think it's
something that you teach. I think it's something that rubs off on them because
of the way we conduct our practices, the way we conduct our film sessions, the
way we live our life. I think the greatest example a coach can be to young
people is what you do. Let them observe you as a coach, don't tell them what
you want them to do; let them observe you. They know I'm intense, they know
that I'm going to challenge them, but they also know I'm going to love them
and hug them and I'll do anything in the world for them. But we have a job to
do on that floor and I'm going to fight for them too. I'm going to fight for
our program. That's the way I was coached, and it brought out the best in me
and that's the way I coach.



Q. A sort of recruiting question to dovetail the last question. There's
apparently legislation in the pipeline that would potentially restrict the
contact that college coaches can have with high school athletes during the
high school year; do you have any reaction to that?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I'm not sure of all of the legislation, honestly. I
leave that up to my assistant coaches, my compliance people and just tell me
what I need to know. They got legislation out there to get rid of practice
players for the male practice players. There's so much -- I don't even give it
a thought until it comes across my desk honestly.



Q. Considering these teams had participated in two of the three greatest
comebacks in a Final Four game from deficits, we may not have a winner until
Thursday. In your mind what has to happen tomorrow night for Baylor to be
successful?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We got to attack their match-up zone. They got to be
very patient and aggressive in a taking their match-up zone.



Q. How about defensively?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, I think we got to continue to do what we have
done. I think it's those defensive principles in our man-to-man that got us
here. They're not going to play a whole lot of players. We may play more
players than they play, depending upon the flow of the game. But we're going
to have to guard staggered screens, we're going to have to guard big girls
inside. We're going to have to rebound.



Q. What is your biggest concern about Michigan State?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Their match-up zone. Just it's very good and we see a
lot of it in the Big 12 with the Iowa States and those guys that run it a lot.
But Joanne learned that probably from Joe Champion, I thought he was one of
the masters at teaching a match-up zone defense. And the thing that I respect
so much about them is they stay with it. I'm not a zone coach, I tend to want
to pull them out if they hit a three or something like that. But they're very
disciplined with their match-up zone.



Q. Emily had struggled in the post-season, even starting with the Big 12
tournament, particularly from the three-point line and I know your strategy
has been just keep shooting it, but was there any strategy involved in moving
her inside more last night?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, Seimone Augustus was guarding her and if you go
back to the very first play of the game, we went right at Seimone with Abby. I
just felt like that we need to challenge Emily, we needed to challenge Seimone
Augustus inside. I feel like Emily, she's a true post player. That's what we
recruited her to be. She has accepted her role when you got a Blackmon and a
Young inside, she's accepted her role that I'll do whatever to help the team.
So she's been asked to play the three and shoot the perimeter shot more. Last
night we put her inside and realized that she could get some space between
herself and Seimone because that hook shot is Emily's shot. And she got on a
role with that and we were playing the zone defense, which allowed her to stay
in the game longer and she was very effective for us.



Q. Could you talk about Emily and just kind of relishing that sixth person
role. She started some last year, but she seems to really like to come off and
give you a boost?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Those kids, they all want to play. They're the happiest
bunch to be around because they love winning. And Emily would do anything in
the world to be a part of it if it's one minute, 20 minutes, 25 minutes, she
is the first one on the court at practice and she's the last one to leave. And
it's become kind of comical because when we go on the road, Emily is like got
her shoes on before we get off the bus, and everybody else has got to get
their shoes on and take their sweats off and it's like she's sprinting out
there because she's got this little routine that "I'm going to be the first
one to take a shot on this floor." So she's a gym rat. There aren't many girls
that have wrist action like that and that strength from the perimeter at that
size. That's many hours of labor in a gym with her dad rebounding for her.



Q. Both you and Michigan State showed yesterday that teams without Final Four
experience can come back from deficits and beat teams more experienced and all
that; what is the biggest reason that a team can succeed in spite of not
having that experience that people love to talk about?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I think it's just parity. You've got teams that have
talent on them now. You've got coaches that prepare their teams and what to
expect and you've got coaches that regardless of the score they're going to
keep coaching and challenging their players. I've always said this: The best
teams don't always win, do they? How many times have you seen that? I've seen
it in our conference. We have had teams in our league that have an All-
American at every position. And they don't get out of the first or second
rounds of the playoffs. It's team chemistry, it's believing in each other,
it's believing in what the coaches put into place and the game is just really
getting good for women.



Q. As a player you've won championships, been to the Olympics, had parades
thrown for you; how does this compare personally for you to this?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: The joy I get out of this is watching those Baylor fans
last night and watching my team. That's the most enjoyable moment for me is
just to watch those people experience something for the first time that I've
had the privilege of experiencing in the 12 times I think I've been to a Final
Four. That brings a smile to my face. And not just the people here, but the
people that can't be here back in our community and in our state.



Q. Can you talk about Kelli Roehrig on their team, just kind of problems she
will present inside.



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Let's just talk about both of them inside. Big body, we
saw it in the Minnesota team. Just strong, never gets rattled. If you scout
those players you don't leave a gym and go, wow, they leap out of the gym,
they get up there and I think hang on the rim. But you leave a gym and go, I
would like to have players like that on my team. They know how to win and they
know what to do to win. And when I left the floor at the end of the first half
last night, I thought that Joanne has two special post players in there.



Q. Do you see a lot of yourself in Joanne in terms of where you have come
taking programs that have gone nowhere, five years in the Final Four the first
time, you both are a little animated on the sidelines to be, you know,
charitable?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, now Joanne will tell you that's her Italian
culture. That's what she told me the first time I talked to her. I said, "I
love your personality." She said "Coach, I'm Italian, we talk with our hands."
Well, I don't know what I am, I need to go back home and check. I don't know
the state of Michigan State's program when Joanne took over, and I apologize
for that. I know the state of our program was seven wins. I do know what she's
done the times she's been there. And it's remarkable. And it's very similar to
what we have done. She's done it in a fantastic conference as we have. She has
energy, as I said earlier, when asked about Joanne, the difference in our two
philosophies is she's more zone-oriented on defense, and I was coached by a
lot of man-to-man coaches.



Q. The national champions recently have been kind of built around one sort of
superstar Player of the Year type of player. Are these two teams here kind of
an example of team over that one sort of star or does Sophia kind of fit into
that sort of role?



KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, with Sophia being a Kodak All-American, I would
think of the two teams that she's probably going to get the most attention.
But I think what you're seeing is two up-and-coming programs whose coaches
have put in their own philosophy and style of play and their players are
playing so hard and you don't have a Player of the Year on the floor, you
don't have a power to be on the floor as far as those teams that have won
numerous national championships, and I think that's exciting. I may not have
thought that when I was at Louisiana Tech and we were in the Final Four every
year, but I think that this generation, this era, for people to turn the TV on
tomorrow and watch Baylor University play for a national championship is
pretty awesome.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: I'm letting her go then if there's no other questions.

_

KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: All right. Thank you.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 3, 2005

  

### [Shyra Ely](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14372)

### [Loree Moore](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16270)

### [Pat Summitt](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14068)

### [Shanna Zolman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14374)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We'll start with an opening statement by the coach.

_

COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, obviously this is a really tough loss for our
basketball team and for our coaching staff and all associated with our
program. While I want this team to understand how proud we are of them and how
they represented us all year long, unfortunately, tonight's second half, we go
up by 16 and we know we have to answer runs when you're ahead. I thought we
lost our composure at times, they scored 19 points off our turnovers. Got to
give them all the credit for doing so. But then I thought we -- two things
happened. I just thought our defense didn't stand up to the test of disrupting
their offensive flow and they got the looks they wanted. Their three-point
shooters were able to catch and shoot. Their post people were able to run
their inside action. And at the other end, I thought we got the ball inside,
but we mishandled it, we played in a bit of a rush. And we didn't have the
composure and kick the ball out. So you have to give Michigan State credit.
They had the composure and we lacked it at times and they made the defensive
plays and I thought again we were on our heels. I don't understand it, because
it's not the way we have played to get here. But I'm really proud of our team
for the type of season they have had and I thought Loree Moore was terrific
tonight in pushing tempo and playing the kind of defense she had to play.
Obviously this is a very, very disappointing loss. It will be a long time
before I get this one out of my system. I'm sure the players probably feel the
same way.



Q. Shyra, can you just talk about how you're feeling right now?



SHYRA ELY: Obviously I'm disappointed and really upset with, I mean, myself
and the outcome of the game.



Q. Loree, can you talk about what went on when they made that rush back at you
in the second half?



LOREE MOORE: That was a run. The game of basketball is made of runs. And they
got us on our heels and they were attacking us at every angle. And we just
couldn't find a way to stop them when we needed to. At times we didn't make
some key stops when we really needed them, we kind of turned the ball over on
offense, and we didn't execute the way we needed to on defense. So you give
them the credit, all the credit for what they did and the way that they did
it.



Q. Shanna, did your team relax just a little bit when you went up 16, and when
did you know this was going to be a fight to the finish?



SHANNA ZOLMAN: The first thing that went through my mind was the LSU/Baylor
game. Because that was the same exact thing that happened. And I don't know if
we relaxed, I don't know if we just -- we knew they were going to make a run.
Like Loree said, the game of basketball is about runs and we knew they were
ready to make a run back at us. And we realized that we have to be able to
counterbalance that and be able to make a run back at them ourselves. But we
were just never able to do that. Never able to get over the hump and buckle
down and make defensive stops and be able to answer them back on the offensive
end. But like she said we were well aware of it, we just couldn't do it.



Q. Shanna, is this any more disappointing because it happened in your home
state or on your home ground so to speak?



SHANNA ZOLMAN: I don't care where it's at. It could be in Alaska and I
wouldn't care, it's a loss. Obviously it's all the excitement and coming into
it, yeah, there's all the hype coming in, playing in your home state, in front
of home family and crowd but a loss is a loss. It doesn't matter if it's here
or Nova Scotia, it's a loss. So it's not any more depressing.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Ladies, I'll let you go back to the locker room. We'll start
with questions for the Head Coach. Go ahead.

_ 

Q. Normally when you're able to get a double-digit lead on teams you're pretty
much able to lock them down; why were you unable to discourage Michigan State
tonight?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Obviously they kept coming at us and I thought they were
aggressive in transition and also they did an excellent job of executing their
half-court offense. They got good looks. It wasn't like they were forcing
shots. I thought that they were very committed to setting and using screens,
they read well off of their screens. They got a lot of open looks against us.
I thought our defense, as I said, it kind of withered away at times. We didn't
really stand up to the test. We had to be able to influence how they were
running their sets and I didn't think that our defense really disrupted them
like obviously theirs did against us.



Q. Can you talk a little bit about Shyra's play over the last four years in
your program and her bright future that she has ahead of her?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, obviously Shyra is a terrific athlete. She's
certainly developed her game. I know if we look back over her career and think
about four Final Fours, you got to really respect that. Not many classes get
to do what Shyra, Loree, and Brittany have done. It just speaks to the impact
that they have had on our program. And I know she struggled some tonight and
usually it's when she's trying to do too much as opposed to not stepping up to
make plays. So you got to respect the fact that she was trying to get the job
done and had those turnovers late in the game because they really keyed on her
on the inside. But she's not the only one, I just thought that we played a
little bit more like "I've got to do it." Every player was like "I've got to
do it" as opposed to continuing to run what we needed to run offensively, so
we lost our composure as a team on a number of possessions.



Q. I think somebody asked you yesterday one of the keys to the game or
something along those lanes and you said rebounding and you beat them by 10
and you hurt them on the offensive boards which I know you thought was
important. Yet you still lost the game. I know it's disappointing no matter
what, but does that make it even hurt a little more? You did the thing that
you thought, hey, this is what we got to do, yet you still kind of lost your
composure at key points.



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, what really bothers me is you got to make lay-ups and
free throws if you want to win. Obviously defense and board play are key. But
those easy shots, you got make the free throws. And if you just look
statistically at our free throw shooting then you think about how many lay-ups
we missed. I mean, we had three shots late in the game in one series. So I did
not think that we did a good job of finishing around the basket and hitting
our free throws. And then turning the ball over. We have a turnover on top of
the floor late to give them the go ahead. That was such a momentum for them. I
think probably it put a little bit of even more pressure on us. That's when we
missed those three shots.



Q. You addressed it just a second ago a little bit, but that last offensive
possession you were down by two and you had like three or four chances to get
good shots and seemed like the players thought there was a little bit less
time left than there was. You might have had three or four more seconds to do
that. Would you talk about that.



COACH PAT SUMMITT: I think they were just overanxious. I think they were just
trying to make a play. And I would rather have someone trying to make a play
than avoiding that type of situation. And certainly we had -- all three shots,
if I'm clear on this, came inside the paint. So obviously we had our chances.
We had our chances. But it doesn't come down to just that one play. I think as
you look throughout the game, I guess the things that stand out in my mind is
we didn't deny the middle of the floor. We let them run their offense and get
into a good rhythm. We didn't identify the three-point shooters. We shot the
ball, I think, well at times, well enough probably to win for a Tennessee
team, if we buckled down and played great defense and had more impact with our
defense. Our rebounding was good enough to win, our defense wasn't, and our
turnovers were costly.



Q. What does it say about the growth of the women's game that tonight we had
two teams that never had been this far before, came from a combined 31-down to
get the right to play Tuesday?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, I think it does speak to the parity. I think to have
two teams here for the first time and the two teams here for the first time
are the two teams that will play for a national championship. I think that we
have talked about this for years, but now we're seeing it firsthand. And the
women's game has changed tremendously in a good way when you talk about
parity. And I don't think that this is any fluke and it happened one year and
that's it. I think every year you're going to see teams really battle it out
and probably going it see more upsets in first and second round play.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 3, 2005

  

### [Lindsay Bowen](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16353)

### [Kristin Haynie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15312)

### [Joanne P. McCallie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14490)

### [Kelli Roehrig](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16351)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We'll start with some comments by the Coach.

_

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: That was a very exciting basketball game. I guess
that's saying the obvious. Terrific basketball game. Tennessee is a great
team. A very good team. I think the second 20 minutes really reflected the
greatness and the heart and soul of our team. To come back from the deficit
and to finish the game in the manner in which our team did, and I am certainly
very proud, but not the least bit surprised given what our team has done all
year long. And how they have competed, gosh, in so many games. And I am so
proud of Kelli and her composure, Lindsay and her leadership and guts and
Kristin and her determination. That was one of the greatest steals I've ever
seen in my life. It was about six feet, she was six feet ahead of the ball if
that makes any sense and Lindsay was just competing like she always does and
Kelli just refuses to do anything but attack. So I'm very proud of all of our
team members, Liz Shimek and everybody else also, and now we're excited to
enjoy this until approximately midnight tonight and then it's on to the next
adventure.



Q. Kristin, in your four years at Michigan State, can you recall a bigger or
more important rally considering the circumstances tonight?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: I mean definitely not. This was a great game for us. We hung
in there, we stuck together. We kept our composure down the stretch when it
really counted and our team gave all our heart and effort down the stretch
when it mattered.



Q. Kelli, you missed a pretty much point blank shot with a couple minutes to
go that could have put you all up. I know you know what I'm talking about. How
big was it for you to, like you say, keep your composure and how much did you
want to hit that lay-up there with like 35 seconds to go.



KELLI ROEHRIG: Oh, yeah, that lay-up. Yeah, it was a pretty big lay-up, but
all I got to say is we won. And I got Kristin out here, I owe the world to
her. Because she -- that steal was unbelievable. But I was too open maybe, I
don't know. But, no, it's over. We won. That's all that matters.



Q. Kelli, I think there was a time you guys, it was like the 14 -- 16th time
Tennessee had gotten their biggest lead, there was a time-out and Coach looks
like she really blasted you guys. She got in your face and challenged you.
Kind of give us an idea what that time-out was like and do you remember what
I'm talking about; was she really getting into you?



KELLI ROEHRIG: We -- there was a couple. Whatever time-out it was, we deserved
it. Because we were not playing Michigan State basketball at that point in
time. A time-out is a time to refocus, regroup, and that's basically what we
had to do at every time-out, regardless if she yelled or not. I mean, that
pushes us forward, so.



Q. Kristin, will you talk about just your composure, y'all did make -- I think
you tied for the biggest comeback in a Final Four game especially since
Tennessee has been here and y'all haven't?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Definitely. Our whole team stuck together. Everyone was
hitting big shots, getting the rebounds, everyone contributed in their own way
and that's what teams do and that's what got us the win is our hustle towards
the end of the game.



Q. Kristin, again, you looked like you struggled in the first half; you got in
foul trouble. How tough was it to keep your composure, especially when you
come out in the second half and Tennessee is just pouring it on you.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: For any player it's all mental, you can either go down in the
drain or you can come back, get back out of the drain. You know what was going
on with you. You know, I mean anyone can go in a funk and you just got to --
it's Final Four game, it's do or die so you got to let that go and take it
from there and then just keep your composure and keep attacking.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to let the ladies go back to the locker room.

_ 

Q. Coach, it appeared with about four minutes left in the first half you
decided to take Kristin out then and Tennessee made their move and took
control of the game, did you begin to think to yourself, "Did I do this too
soon" or, "Would I even put her back in, in the first half?"



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Without question I would not put her back in, I was
very, very confident in Lindsay and the guards. And some mistakes were made.
However, I wouldn't do it different simply because the game is too long. I
knew that we were going to have a heck of a second half just the way
everything's been going in second halves, the physicality of it, the way calls
are made, everything about the second half is when it blows up and so I just
felt we needed Kristin then.



Q. What does it say about the state of women's basketball that in Tuesday's
final you're going to have two programs that are not used to being in this
particular position?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, first of all it's an all green national
championship. We're very excited about that. But I think it just speaks to the
fact that there's growth and exciting things happening in women's basketball.
Baylor is a terrific team; so is LSU, so is Tennessee. But it's just very
exciting I think for people to learn more about other teams and how people are
trying to -- teams are just growing and the parity is growing. It's exciting.



Q. You got two teams that overcame huge deficits now to get to the
championship game and pretty much left it all only the floor, do you got
anything left for the championship?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Oh, yes, I think we'll find a few things. It's just
too exciting. It's the last game of the year. There's nothing we can do to
change that. So I just feel both teams will be very ready and it will be quite
a game.



Q. Could you talk about the Victoria Lucas-Perry, her flurry there, she got
seven points?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Tremendous. What a lift. Her shooting, her three-
point shooting, just her confidence, the way she was attacking the basket to
get to the free throw line. That was an absolutely huge lift because Lindsay
had kind of gotten us going and other people need to pick up at different
times. And Victoria was right there when her team needed her most. It was
incredible to watch.



Q. Can you talk about what it means to get a win like this against a program
like Tennessee and a coach like Pat Summitt?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Terrific program, it's an outstanding victory, I
mean it just is because it puts us in a position to play for a national
championship. And we have played a lot of great programs in year. There's been
a lot of neat things going on. So it's just really an opportunity for us now
to play for a national championship and certainly Tennessee is a great
program.



Q. What happened on the technical foul and what did Pat Summitt say to you at
the end of the game?



COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, the technical foul was from the bench. I did
not get it, maybe I should have gotten it. It seemed to have worked out quite
nicely but it was from the bench and so that was -- I don't really care about
that technical. The way things were going, who cares? You just got to play on.
And then what did Pat say to me? Just good game. It was just, that's what --
just good game.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Thank you very much, Coach.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 3, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Emily Niemann](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16352)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We'll start with an opening statement from the Coach and go to
the questions for the student-athletes first.

_

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We are playing for the national championship. We
just beat, in my opinion, the most talented team in the country this year with
the best player in the country. You get down 15, and I'm looking at my
coaches, going "We're getting embarrassed on national television." And I
challenged my players and once again what warriors they are. This is something
else.



Q. Any of the players, the surge that you had at the end of the first half to
tie the game. How much energy did that give you for the second half?



EMILY NIEMANN: It's always good to take momentum into the locker room
especially when we had as tough as a start as we did so that was big for us.



Q. Emily, you're known more as three-point shooter; did you guys see something
on film or during the game that you should be taking the ball inside.



EMILY NIEMANN: It just kind of happened on the floor. My teammates did a great
job of getting me the ball in spots where I could score and fortunately they
were falling tonight.



Q. Sophia, can you just talk about your performance and what it meant to do
this in front of your mom?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, it was just a great opportunity for me to play so well in
front of my mom and my mom to actually be here. I don't know, I think that or
I thought that I had to step up tonight really big time for my team and my
teammates did a really good job of getting me the ball as well and, I don't
know, I just scored whenever I needed to.



Q. Sophia, can you talk about and Stephanie, you too, can you talk about the
contributions from Abby, particularly in that second half run where you all
got ahead and took the lead?



SOPHIA YOUNG: What's your name and where you from? (Laughter.)

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: And he didn't pick us to win and he's from Waco.
(Laughter.)

SOPHIA YOUNG: I thought Abby picked up big time for us tonight and in our last
game Abby didn't that play that much against LSU and tonight she did a great
job against Seimone and keeping her to her average of scoring and I think Abby
just played a heck of a game tonight.



Q. To any of the players, I want to know about what you did differently
defensively after you got that big deficit down 15 or did you do anything
differently? Seemed like your defense you kicked it up after that.



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I don't think they did anything different. I think that we
just buckled down and it was tight at that time at the end of the game. When
the game is so tight you just have to try to make good plays. I thought Sophia
did a good job of coming over deflecting the ball. We go the got a lot of
deflections at the end of the game.



Q. Sophia, I know you guys play for yourselves and all your teammates but you
could you sort of put this in the larger context about given the negative
publicity that's happened in Baylor in the last couple of years, what this
does as far as rehabilitating the image of the school?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, that's really, it's the past and so we really don't dwell
on it anymore. Right now we are just trying to be the shining light of Baylor
and also to the Waco community, so I think that it's we just put a positive
thought in people's mouths and minds about our school and our community.



Q. Johnson was taking the ball to the hole right from the start much more than
she normally does, was that because you had Augustus and the other players so
well covered?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, yeah, that was because she had Augustus, but we had
Chelsea on Johnson and I thought Chelsea did a pretty good job on her. Temeka
is a pretty good penetrator and we tried to stop that. I mean she was, she is
going to get her shots, so we did the best we could.



Q. Sophia, talk a little bit about not knowing who you're going to play yet,
taking the emotion of this game and going into the final.



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well, we play for a national championship so it doesn't really
matter who we're going to play. We're just going to go out and play our
hardest and just try to win a national championship.



Q. This is for any of the players, can you comment on playing in front of such
a large crowd like this and does it take time to get used to shooting in a
facility like this?



EMILY NIEMANN: Well, as far as the shooting goes it's a very different arena.
Never been in anything like that before. But everybody's playing in a new
floor, so nobody's really used to it. It was just great to play in the Final
Four in front of all these people, that was fun. So there you go.



Q. For any of the players, Kim doesn't usually like to play that much zone,
were you all surprised at how much zone defense you played?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I wasn't. I know that we feel like the zone would be
effective against them. We tried a different type of zone this game and
thought it matched up better with the way they figured themselves on the court
offensively. So I thought it worked well.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to let you go back to the locker room and we'll
begin the open period and now we'll go to questions for Kim.

_ 

Q. The way that the tournament ended for you guys last year, was that a
motivating factor to make it here this year and be playing in this game?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We mentioned the ending of our season last year
one time in the first team meeting. There's a poster or that's what you want
to call it on our wall that has the score of the game with point whatever it
was, two tenths of a second. It's not been mentioned again until the media
asked about it. Everybody that was involved in that game will never forget it.
And that in itself should motivate you.



Q. What was the strategy to keep them from getting transition baskets; even
when you guys had turnovers and missed shots it still seemed like they didn't
score much in transition?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, we're a transition team as well and going
against each other in practice every day pretty much prepares us for
transition defense. If you look at the players on our team, our post players
are athletic and they run the floor as well. I thought that the key to the
game was changing defenses, slowing it down with the two-two-one, back to the
three-two. I thought Abiola Wabara in our man, the shot Seimone Augustus made
when we were in man, were great shots. And that's what great players do. I
don't think we just gave her any easy looks. When we went to the zone we made
sure we matched up and knew where she was. A lot of Seimone's game, when
you're in zone is at the foul line area. And we took that away and played it
flat with a big player. And no, I'm not a zone coach, but I damn sure like to
win.



Q. In regards to only four players that scored for them tonight, was there
some thinking if Seimone is going to get hers, really try to put clamps on
everybody else or is that how the game just developed?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No, that was just one of the ways to win the game.
Seimone Augustus, being the best player in the country, is going to get her
points. We can't let the second and third player have All-American nights.



Q. Could you talk a little bit about Abby's contribution, what she did
particularly well tonight and what you might need her to do better tomorrow?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Abby didn't get to play much the first time we
played LSU, she played six minutes. And watching Abby develop throughout the
course of the year, I just was very confident that Abby was the perfect person
to guard Seimone Augustus, and guys, she guarded her. She didn't stop her, but
she guarded her as good as anybody could possibly guard her. And Abby, she was
just a very good player for us tonight. Abby's been that way and I said it at
the Big 12 tournament, I said it in the Regionals in Tempe, and Abiola Wabara
is a solid player that nobody really gives enough credit to. But we sure give
her enough credit. We know what she means to our team.



Q. When you were a young player did you ever think the day would come when you
would look up and see 29,000 people in an arena to watch women's basketball?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You know, I did. I did. I knew it was a great game
and the game continued to grow throughout my career, both as a player and as
an assistant Coach and it's just a great sport. And it does not surprise me
the least bit. You need to remember, I played in this arena when it was the
Hoosier Dome in front of 70,000 people in 1984 when they opened it, the
Olympic team came here and so I knew it was there to grow and it doesn't
surprise me.



Q. Can you talk about whatever adjustments you made to get Young some, get
fouls off Young?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, Sophia doesn't have the body that Fowles
does, and she was banging in there as much as she could. I think a lot of it
had to do with the delivery of the pass from the perimeter; it was better, it
was quicker and it was at a time when Sophia was open. In the first half we
were delivering passes just a split second too late. And Sophia would also, we
were trying to bring Fowles away from the basket as much as we could. She
likes to come and help from the off side block and swat shots and if we could
bring her up and get her away, we felt like we could isolate Emily and Abby
and Stephanie down in there. And that's what we were trying to do more of.



Q. You said you challenged your players when they were 15 points behind, what
did you say to them?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I really can't remember. It was probably something
they have heard a million times, just putting a little fire in your belly and
have a little umph about you and don't get embarrassed on national television.
And let's roll up our sleeves. I know one thing I told them is you're not
going to get it back in one or two possessions. You're not going to come down
here and jack threes and get it back quickly. You take your time, we got
plenty of time left in the basketball game.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach, thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 3, 2005

  

### [Seimone Augustus](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14353)

### [Pokey Chatman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13865)

### [Temeka Johnson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13917)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Take an opening statement from Coach Chatman and then we'll go
to questions for the student-athletes first.

_

COACH CHATMAN: I could sit here and dissect this stat sheet in a basketball
game that you guys witnessed like most coaches do when they get up here for an
opening statement, but I think one of my assistants mentioned something in the
locker room that put it in proper perspective and I'll clarify that. We have a
quote when we leave out of our locker room, that says, "You don't always get
what you want, you get what you earn." I'm sure our kids wanted to win.
Everybody here on this stage wants to win. But we didn't do a whole lot to go
out there and earn it and I think that Baylor did. To the tune of 32, 24
points in the paint, we got beat in points in the paint. We got beat on the
boards. We got beat in our half court execution. They got to the free throw
line 21 times. And that right there basically was the ballgame.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the student-athletes.

_ 

Q. Temeka, were you surprised they played as much zone as they did and was it,
did you have some trouble executing against the zone?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: No, I wasn't surprised. Not after we went on the run that they
-- that we did when they was in man-to-man. I'm sure she was going to do what
she had to do to switch up things and try to cut in our offensive flow.



Q. Temeka, were they able to do something specific to limit your transition
game?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: No, not really. I think we allowed them to get second
opportunities with turnovers and rebounds and they were scoring the way they
pretty much wanted to. So it wasn't no transition there.



Q. Seimone, it looked like shooting tonight the angles sort of flattened out.
I was wondering, was there some difficulty adjusting to the sense of depth
perception out there tonight? Did you take a while to get used to the arena to
shoot?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: No. I don't think it had anything to do with the arena. With
the depth perception? Is that what you said?



Q. Sometimes with a wide background it's hard to --



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: No, you can't focus on the arena and how it's made and stuff
like that. It's about on the court. The goals. Once you're stepping between
those lines. You can't really worry about the arena.



Q. Both of you, can you talk about the emotion; is it anger, frustration, you
know?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: All of the above. It's anger and frustration for me.

SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: It's the same. You never are happy when you lose especially
on the stage like this. I can't see anything else but anger and frustration.



Q. This is for Seimone and then Temeka. Did Baylor throw anything at you that
really surprised you, such as Abiola Wabara, she's not been known as being a
scorer and a driver and she came through with some key buckets late in the
game; did that surprise you to see her driving like that or did it not make
any difference?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: We knew that she's a great player and she knows her role.
And she started to step up and hit key buckets for her team and started to
make things happen. But it wasn't any different than any other game.

TEMEKA JOHNSON: No surprise. She did what she needed to do to help her team
advance. She drove, she took it at our -- whoever was guarding her, she played
good defense, she did what she was asked, she was a good role player tonight.



Q. Seimone, talk about the defense they played against you; how were they able
to keep you out of the foul line area where you hit a lot of your shots and
was that some of the best defense you've seen against yourself?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: No, I think I settled for shots too, in the first half. But
in the second half, as you can see, we started to get to the rim, started to
get paint touches, started to get inside. In the first half it was about not
executing and just settling for long shots.



Q. Coach touched on this a little bit, but she talked about earning it and the
fact that you may not have done enough of that tonight. Can you talk about
when things got a little out of sync there in the second half, with the
turnovers and so forth, and what was going through your minds after building
that 15-point lead?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: The first half wasn't really in our mind. We was concentrating
on the second half. And when they got up, when they went on their run, the
main thing was to try to maintain our composure and stay together and not
separate. That's the one thing that most people do when a team runs on us, the
teammates start to separate. Our main thing was to try to maintain our
composure and stay together on the same page.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Ladies, thank you very much. We're going to release them back to
the locker room. Questions for the coach.

_ 

Q. It looked like the transition game was really working for you early. They
called a time-out down 24-9. Do you feel you went away from it as much as they
took some things away?



COACH CHATMAN: No, I will always credit the opponent. And I think it was both
the things you mentioned. It was a mindset, one of the things that's difficult
to create transition baskets when you're taking the ball out of the net.
You're not getting those long rebounds, transition is reduced a little bit
when the speed is closer to your speed. Transition for me is running the
basketball down the court and maybe those minutes will come into play late in
the game, fatigue factor, so there's a lot of things there. But I think it was
some Baylor and some LSU not being mentally tough enough to take what we
wanted.



Q. Whitaker's shot right at the end of the first half, you didn't look too
happy. Did you feel your players should have been better prepared for them
trying that play and also what kind of momentum does a play like that to end
the half give a team?



COACH CHATMAN: I can remember a game, a Regional championship game, I hated to
see half-time come. This particular game we needed half-time because we
totally lost the momentum going into the half. You used the word "prepared."
It's not enough to say, you must do. And we basically didn't get it done.
There's a scouting report, that you create because you watch seven, eight,
nine, ten tapes. And the bottom line was we didn't carry those things out to
the best of our ability. And Baylor was just more aggressive in their attack
and they took what they wanted.



Q. What did you think of Mulkey's defensive game plan and changing defenses
and the way she kept Seimone out of that area that Seimone shoots from a lot?



COACH CHATMAN: I think it's the same game plan that we have seen for 30-plus
games because of our ability to execute at a half-court offense. You see man,
you see zone, they didn't have to go to junk defense because we didn't quite
execute against the zone. We're a team that when someone goes zone, we get
paint touches, we shoot less from the perimeter, and that's something that we
pride ourselves on. But again, I credit Baylor; it was there aggressiveness
that we didn't get those paint touches, get the ball reversals, attack the
gaps, play behind the zone, shoot the gaps into the foul line. Be it a mental
meltdown or physical meltdown, the bottom line is we didn't get it done.



Q. I know we asked you a bunch last week about having not been tested enough;
is maybe this specifically what you guys hadn't seen enough through the years
even though you're a team that did make you play half court and kind of
eliminate transition for this many minutes of a game?



COACH CHATMAN: Sounds pretty good right now. I think we ran into a very hot
ball club, a very hungry ball club. A methodical ball club. A ball club that
attacked us and we had, we didn't respond well. I guess in theory that sounds
like a pretty good point. But the bottom line is, it's a 40 minute game and we
still had our opportunities, several possessions to swing the momentum, to cut
into the momentum, to neutralize some of the things that we didn't do well and
we didn't seize that opportunity.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach, thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 2, 2005

  

### [Kristin Haynie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=15312)

### [Joanne P. McCallie](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14490)

### [Kelli Roehrig](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16351)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to take questions for the student-athletes first and
then let them go back to the open locker room areas and take questions for
Coach McCallie. And without further adieu, Coach McCallie. Take us away.

_

JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Great. Obviously we're working hard and excited to return
to Indy. This is a great city. We appreciate this city very much and their
commitment to basketball overall and their commitment to the Big Ten
tournament. So it is great to be back. Our team is working on getting better.
We played some great teams. We were able to get better and move on which is a
lot of fun. And we are definitely looking forward to the opportunity tomorrow
night, I know again another great team. All the teams right now are very very
good as you already know. And we're just working on increasing our ability to
put more minutes together and going for that very difficult 40-minute
performance and that's very hard to do, especially under the circumstances
where there's this great defensive teams everywhere. So we're looking forward
to that opportunity. And that's it.



Q. Kristin and Kelli, I would like you both to answer this: Getting here,
seeing all the lights and all the attention and everything you're getting,
talk about your responses to this being here for the first time.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: It's definitely a fun experience. It's every kid's dream to
make it to the Final Four and to get here and it's just been a lot of fun.
There's times where you have to be serious, but there's times to have fun too
and our team is having fun and we're just ready to finally play a game
tomorrow.

KELLI ROEHRIG: Kelli, I agree. (Laughter.)



Q. Kristin, this is for you, of all the fun things you just were talking
about, fun things on the court, you do a lot of different things; what gives
you the most satisfaction and why?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: On the court? I love just making my teammates better and just
passing the ball, making them look good. That's what I love to do.



Q. Kelli, having a team like Michigan State here that's now kind of emerging
on the national scene, how do you think overall that improves women's
basketball and improves this Final Four to have a team like you guys here?



KELLI ROEHRIG: I think it says a lot. Not just about Michigan State, but
basketball, but about the whole university and we had a great season. And we
deserve to be here. I think it says a lot to all the other teams out there
that are striving to be great.



Q. For either of the players or both of you, Tennessee seniors have been here
four times to the Final Four. You guys are making your first appearance. Do
you expect that the experience factor will play any sort of a role tomorrow?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Not at all. It's just another game. We have played great teams
this season. We have had a great schedule and we're ready. It's just
everyone's great and we're great, Tennessee is great, so it's going to be a
great game tomorrow.

KELLI ROEHRIG: Yeah, pretty much the same. We have experience in tournaments
too. Big Ten tournament, we never had gone that far. So look what we did
there. So it doesn't -- I mean experience is great but we have experience
so...



Q. Kelli, you have seen some very interesting rebound combinations in this
entire NCAA tournament run. From what you've seen so far in the scouting
report what does Tennessee do? Are they any vastly different from what you
played against?



KELLI ROEHRIG: I really think our last two games are going to help us a lot in
the rebounding standpoint of the game. Tennessee is a great rebounding team.
And that's really going to be the key for us. To box out and the physical post
players and guards that go in there, so we just got to really box out and key
on rebounding.



Q. Kristin, Tennessee is known for its defense; could you mention a couple
factors that you think might be crucial, things that you need to do against
their defense?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Tennessee is definitely, they have great defense, man-to-man
they're physical. They love to grab and hold. We're used to that. I think the
Big Ten is one of the toughest in the conference, we like those physical
games. It's a blood battle, we love it and we're just going to go out and
enjoy it.



Q. Kristin, can you talk a little bit about how you guys came out? In the last
three halves you guys came out and really set the tempo for the way you want
to play and how important that's going to be tomorrow in being able to
establish your game.



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Coming out of the first half and the second half the Stanford
game we got a great start and that's what Michigan State basketball is all
about. It's fun when we do that. We just have to get that attack mentality and
do the same thing tomorrow night.



Q. I guess Kelli, you and the men's team are really good friends it sounds
like so we have been -- will you be watching tonight and do you have their
cell phone numbers and will you track them down later on?



KELLI ROEHRIG: We actually are pretty good friends. Kristin and I have grown
up with their seniors as well and we will watch them tonight and we will be
cheering for them. And I'm sure there will be many cell phone calls after they
win, so...



Q. With the Tennessee program's rich tradition is there any kind of a factor
with them or have you guys played enough teams that you're beyond that?



KELLI ROEHRIG: Well, I think that, I mean, you know, they have a tradition.
They really do. But the thing is with us is that when we step on the court
it's us versus them. Michigan State of now versus Tennessee of now.



Q. To either Kristin or Kelli, after looking at film and studying Tennessee's
tendencies, can you name one or two things that they do, you have to make sure
that they don't do against you in tomorrow night's game?



KRISTIN HAYNIE: Well, No. 1 thing is rebounding. That goes without saying,
every game. We just have to be disciplined enough to box them out. They have
great rebounders. They're athletic, they can jump so we got to really key on
rebounding. Then stopping their transition is another important factor in the
game.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to release these ladies back to their locker room.
Please make your way back there and now we're going to start with questions
for the Coach.

_ 

Q. What do you think it does for the women's game to have a team like you
here, new blood in this sort of environment?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I think it's a great thing. I think it brings even more
awareness to women's basketball. To bring out different regions of the country
and to introduce the game at this level with different institutions, I think
it's a great thing. You can get more people involved if there's different
teams getting after it and making it. Certainly it works both ways. The
traditional teams like a Tennessee or a Connecticut, that's also helped put
women's basketball on the map too, for what they have done. I think women's
basketball has grown to a point now where now people are looking for more, so
it's all a process, I guess. But if it benefits the sport, that's a great
thing and if we can benefit the sport in some way, that's a big thing and
that's a great thing.



Q. Can you tell the story about how you ended up recruiting Kristin. I
understand you initially didn't want Kristin Haynie?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: That is not true.



Q. Okay. Could you set the record straight for us?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: She would kill me if she hears you say that.



Q. I understand that she was offered by Michigan and you weren't so sure?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: First you have to do a little bit more background there. I
had just been hired on at Michigan State. One thing I said to Kristin was, the
best respect I could show you is to know your game. And a lot of people told
me to sign Kristin sight unseen. Don't worry about watching her; just sign
her. And I thought that was very superficial. And I said to her, if you can
hang with me, give me some time to see you play, because remember I was hired
in June -- March. Sorry. March. Wrong month. March, I was hired in March and I
didn't get there until April. And I wasn't able to see Kristin play until
really July. And so she came by the office and we talked and everything, and
that was terrific. But I said, you know, I haven't seen you play. And then
when I saw her play, I kind of looked at her like, I don't know. I mean it
looks like you got a lot more than that. And when I saw her play and she came
to our team camp in July -- I want to say this is late July now -- and then
she did one of those triple-double things, and I said excuse me, we need to
talk. (Laughter.) Because I finally was really able to see Kristin offer what
she could offer. So I just felt strongly about not making real quick judgments
and in going to Michigan State and letting her know that I understood her
game. And I understood what she could do. She's been a starter ever since and
it's been a really fun relationship.



Q. There will be a new champion regardless this week. I've been asking some of
the others, how important is it for a new face like a Michigan State or LSU or
Baylor to win this thing? Or, are we trying to still rush what is an ongoing
process in the evolution of women's basketball?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: I don't know. I think that -- I don't think it's overly
important for anyone to do anything in that regard. I just think that you got
four great teams here. And they're all independent of each other. And I think
it's -- I hope the games are terrific. I guess the most important thing is the
quality of competition and the battles out there. And that's a pretty key
ingredient, getting people to watch the games and I think that's the biggest
issue. I don't think people totally care like an underdog has to win it. I
think that's great. But I think that that's not really the point. As long as
people are exposed to the game, tune in to the game and are educated about the
teams that are here and how the teams got here. I think that's important.



Q. What makes you confident that your players aren't going to be overwhelmed
or a little awestruck by the experience?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, beating UCONN by 16 in front of 15,000 people,
beating Notre Dame at Notre Dame in front of 7,000 people in overtime, beating
Ohio State in front of 14,000, to me our schedule has prepared these kids.
We're not even in Knoxville. I would picture the game like you're playing at
Knoxville, like you completely have all things going against you. And then
what are you going to do after that? I just think that this team needs,
deserves credit for the schedule they played, and how they did with the
schedule they played. They beat Minnesota three times. That's an incredible
thing, I think. Tennessee is a great team. But at the same time these other
teams are really, really good too. So I just feel like they have been through
a lot and they're always respectful but really excited to play everybody and
it's pretty much poetic justice that we would play Tennessee, given the
schedule we have had this year. It kind of, you know, why not bring on such a
great program, and so that's just -- it seems fitting, really.



Q. Question about Kristin. What area or two has she improved the most in her
four years?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, she's gotten so healthy now first of all. Because we
have had two years of bad health. So she's gotten completely healthy. She has
just improved in I think every area. Her anticipation has -- everything about
her game, her ball handling, anticipation, her passing, her ability to run the
fast break, her three-point shooting, her assist-to-turnover ratio, I don't
think there's an area of her game that hasn't taken leaps and bounds,
particularly as she's gone through her senior year. And this is definitely, if
you want to call it a breakout year or whatever, but it's a phenomenal year
based on the close games that she has directed and led. Her IQ in decision-
making is something you cannot teach people very easily.



Q. Was there a point when you realized that this team, that your team could be
on this stage? Was there a particular game or point in the season or preseason
where you thought you would be good enough to get here and to play here?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, we definitely -- it really started in the summer. It
was the summer commitment and workouts which gave me an indication that they
might get serious. And what I mean by that is we have two gyms connecting, the
guy's gym and our gym and usually there's all these guys playing and this
summer it was equally busy; guys, gals, all through the summer. And so we had
fun with our poster, we put out a poster that said "driven" and it had an Indy
theme to it and we put that poster out in September and October. And the
ladies looked at it like, yeah, we all thought about Indy but you put it out
there and then you sort of go to work. And so as the year went on, I think
that there are games that were significant, Notre Dame was very significant to
us. Being able to come back from being seven down with 40 seconds left, having
that resiliency. So that was kind of a game and then we continued to move
along and have games along the way that were just we played steady and we
continued to get better. So I think as coaches we were really intrigued by the
summer, and we really thought absolutely we could do it and then the evidence
kept coming in as we played games. So it was kind of a slow thing and it's
worked out great and here we are.



Q. Could you talk about first of all your journey in getting to Michigan State
in the first place, what attracted you to the job, and then I know that you
were in the mix before this became about Michigan State for the Northwestern
job as an alum, you know, and I would like to know whatever happened to that.



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Well, Michigan State was a unique story and I was being
recruited by Michigan State, led by Shelly Applebaum was in the room, our SWA
and Clarence Underwood at that time, and the men were going on the 2000
National Championship with Mateen and all them. And the best thing I could do
to tell you the very short story it was the people that made the difference. I
was pregnant with my second child, so there were definitely constraints in my
life. And they recruited me very methodically, led by Shelly and many, many
phone calls. Somewhat stalking us weekly -- just kidding, Shelly. So they just
did everything very professionally and very organized and different people
would call. They worked very hard to call me on my off day, for example,
because of conflicts of interest, they showed tremendous professionalism
throughout. And it really was one of those things where I signed on to
Michigan State sight unseen. When they flew out to see me at Maine, at the
time they did, I mean they had many choices of who they would bring. And they
brought a jet of 10 to 12 people up to do a presentation. And I thought, I
mean they could have brought two people, I suppose, and it was quite
overwhelming to me and my husband. My husband was met with great discussion
with the vice president at Michigan State, Fred Poston, we communicated and it
just seemed like absolutely the right thing. I didn't even know what Michigan
State looked like. I couldn't remember it because when I played there all we
did was see the inside of Jenison. So I didn't know anything about it but
people told me it was beautiful. I was quite happy when I got there to find
out that they were right.



Q. And Northwestern?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: It just wasn't the right fit. I know as an alum that
sounds like a very strange thing so say but the overall commitment piece was
huge to me and I was able to look and talk to Shelly and everyone at Michigan
State and say, you know, you want to commit like the men and here the men are
winning a national championship. And I just felt that commitment so largely
from Michigan State.



Q. Wonder if you can tell me what kind of boost Rene has given you off the
bench; she started a few games and mostly has come off the bench?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: She's our sixth starter. We don't have five, we have six
starters. And Rene has started games come off the bench but her value to this
team right now has been that incredible energy off the bench. She's a
tremendous player, gives us great defensive and offensive energy and just
gives us a competitive, oh, just a competitive boost that is really good for
our team. And so that's why she's been coming off the bench. But we are a team
of six starters, she's a terrific person, very passionate about what she does
and who she is and terrific family, I could talk a long time about Rene. She's
something special and I knew it when I saw her play immediately I was
absolutely thrilled at her frame and her body and of course then I got to know
her so well and that's been a really a really positive recruiting story.



Q. Going back to Northwestern, you want to talk about your senior year and the
big game you had against them and just Tennessee then and the Tennessee now?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Hey, now, thank you for doing that homework. Wow. That was
a good game. I think we lost by three, and I just was fired up. I was fired up
to play Tennessee, and I don't know, I was kind of knocking down a few and,
the way I look at it is we didn't even have the three-point shot back at that
time. So if we got a three-point shot instead of 20 points it could have been
28, could have been 30. But I saw Tennessee note and I couldn't help myself, I
circled it and showed to the players and said, you can't beat this. Well, what
can you do? (Laughter.)



Q. Is there a good insider's edge Al and Temeka can bring to you on your staff
or is there such a thing as information overload?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: First of all, Al brings so much to our staff regardless of
any connection he might have. He has to be one of the greatest basketball
minds I've had the pleasure of being around. It has been so much fun to work
with Al. I can't begin to tell you. I would of to talk to you a long time. But
so I can't say enough about Al and his just his overall influence and he's
allowed me to be more rested, more focused, by having such strength from him,
it's been a wonderful thing. From the standpoint of Semeka. Semeka is a player
turned coach shows she's learning and growing and she definitely has insights
about Tennessee. And of course Al has coached, many coaching insights about
Tennessee. But I think that at this point in time there is such a thing as
information overload. And for us it's all -- it's been about us all year. We
have never overdone any opponent that we have played. And we certainly will
not stop now. So we have done our normal whatever scouting thing, and that's
what we're going to do. Because it's about us, we know what we have to do, we
respect their strengths, and that's what we're going to keep it.



Q. Going back to your journey to Michigan State, I wonder if you could talk
about your days of coaching at Maine, especially since you pledged it and have
you heard from any of those players?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: Yes, yes. Some of them are here as a matter of fact. And
many of them were at Connecticut. When we came back to Connecticut we had this
huge contingent of former Maine players, which was terrific to see every one
of them. My time at Maine was absolutely phenomenal. It was an eight-year run,
filled with beating lots of teams; Alabama, when they were ranked 10th in
country and we were so thrilled to bring that to the arena. I could go -- by
the way, Cindy Blodgett was a freshman and had 30 in that game. So I got lots
of stories about Maine. Cindy has emailed me recently, has kept in touch, has
played professionally. She's a terrific person. I'm in contact with a lot of
those players just for obvious reasons, people getting married, and so forth,
I mean doing what -- getting new jobs, going to law school. Things of that
nature. But I speak very fondly because Maine was a special opportunity for
me. I was 26 years old, when I was hired there. Mike Plasick was the AD, and
he believed in me as a young coach which I really am grateful for that he did
that. And I was so grateful that Michigan State came along when they did
because I was ready to go. I mean it was time. We had done something very
special and it was time to move on. So it's a neat story, it really worked out
great. I think that I waved to Ellen Garrity a former Maine player as I was
just at practice and there's a bunch of others, but I haven't seen them yet.
Because you know we're in the cocoon, we're part of the circus, so...



Q. When you took over, did you have a set, did you say to yourself, in five
years we want to be here, there; what was the process you had in mind when you
took over?



JOANNE P. McCALLIE: It's kind of funny, you always hope things can just go as
they have for us. But all I can really remember is just wanting so badly to
get things pointed in the right direction. And I can remember my first year
thinking, I just can't stand this. I can't stand this. I just can't stand it.
No NCAA tournament, no nothing. And I just remember being very motivated and
very, surrounded by wonderful people, wonderful staff that have all gone on
and become head coaches or whatever, and I just remember being very motivated
about doing better and growing the program. And that's all I can really tell
you. I had no particular year and I think it's probably come pretty fast. This
is pretty fast. It's just, it has a lot to do with the players. Has a lot to
do with Kristin Haynie, Kelli Roehrig, Liz Shimek and Lindsay Bowen; those
four are very key to what's happening right now.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 2, 2005

  

### [Shyra Ely](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14372)

### [Loree Moore](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16270)

### [Pat Summitt](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14068)

### [Shanna Zolman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14374)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to have an opening statement from Coach Summitt,
your questions to the student-athletes so we can let them go back during the
open locker room period and then we'll continue with questions for the Coach.
So Pat, without further adieu.

_

COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, obviously we're all very excited to be back at the
Final Four and to our senior class for this to be their fourth trip. I think
that speaks to the impact that they have had on our program. To have our two
Indiana players be able to come back to their home state, of course Shyra in
her hometown, it doesn't get any better than that when you think about the
stage that they're on right now. I'm really proud of not only these three, but
the entire team.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Questions for the student-athletes.

_ 

Q. Shyra, they announced the sites for the Final Four action several years in
advance; did you see this and think, "I want to go"?



SHYRA ELY: I didn't know until last year or something like that. And I was
really excited and from that moment on I knew that it was definitely a goal to
be here my senior year and play in the Final Four in Indianapolis.



Q. Loree, I would like to ask you, were you ever fearful this season that you
were not going to have a healthy day and be healthy, your best for this time
of year?



LOREE MOORE: No, no doubt in my mind. I kind of went with it. Everything kind
of got thrown at me and I didn't really know how to handle it. But I stuck
with it and I knew that some time it will come together and it will work out
for me and I'm glad it happened at this time.



Q. This is also for Loree. Loree, through all the injuries and so forth, the
different things that you do on the court; the defense, the rebounding, the
passing; did they go in progression? Did you learn one thing well and go to
the next or did they all kind of pick up a little bit together? Describe how
that came together.



LOREE MOORE: Kind of those things were I was already good at and it kind of
progressed as my years went on and I kind of got better at each aspect of my
game and I just always wanted to stay aggressive with that. I'm known for
defense and pushing tempo and creating for my teammates and now I'm adding a
part of being aggressive on the offense end and looking for my own shots as
well.



Q. Shanna, shooting is such a big part of your game, have you gotten
acclimated to the dome, to the rims; do you feel pretty comfortable out there.



SHANNA ZOLMAN: Yes, I do now. Coming in, the depth perception of everything is
so vast and wide. That's what these shoot-arounds are for. Just being able to
get acclimated to the rims and being able to adjust to the lighting as well.



Q. To the two Indiana players, could you just talk about the demands for
tickets and what sort of delegations you'll have here?



SHYRA ELY: Well, I had people coming out of the woodwork. I really -- it was
so -- I just left it up to my mother to deal with and she's done a great job
and she's been just as busy as I am with phone calls and everything. I'm
really expecting a lot of like a ton of family and friends and, yeah, I didn't
want to get involved with it because it's just too much and I got too much on
my plate right now to be focusing on rather than tickets.

SHANNA ZOLMAN: Same with me, I left that up to my parents to handle.



Q. Shyra, you've been here quite a few times. Could you reflect upon the
value, maybe it's a cumulative value of Final Four experience and having
performed on this stage before and will that possibly give your team an edge
this weekend?



SHYRA ELY: Well, I think our team has a lot of experience in the Final Four.
Obviously with the senior class being here for the fourth time, and I think
that that will just allow us to not get caught up in the whole Final Four
experience, but rather stick to what we came here for, and that's to win a
national championship and I think that our maturity will help lead this team
through as far as our six freshmen and just getting them focused on the price
as well.



Q. Shyra, when Sidney got hurt you seemed to move inside more. How has that
changed things for you this season the last 10 games or so?



SHYRA ELY: Well, playing the floor is pretty natural to me and it's always
been what I've played throughout high school and here. Certain things happen
whether it's injuries or just a different feel for the game. And I think that
one of my strengths is that I'm versatile and I can play where Coach needs me.
So in the beginning of the year that's where she thought I should play and
with Sidney going out that kind of opened up the floor spot for me. But it's
pretty natural and I feel like that's my bread and butter and I'm really happy
that that's where I'm playing at this point in the season.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Final question? Okay. Ladies, I'm going to let you go back to
the locker room and we're going to start with questions for the Coach.

_ 

Q. Pat, between Chamique and Nicky, how active have you tried to be recruiting
in New York and if it appears to be not very or sporadically, what would be
the reason for that? And also could you tell the story of recruiting Nicky
Anosike and what you saw in her and why you think she came to Tennessee?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, first of all as a coaching staff, we try and identify
the players that we think can keep us at a certain level and hopefully give us
a chance to continue to compete in Final Fours for national championships. And
certainly Chamique was a no-brainer, she was the best player in the country
and obviously was the most influential or impact player on our program of the
history of Lady Vol basketball. But Nicky Anosike was a little bit different
in that I knew that she was a great athlete and I had heard a lot about her.
The afternoon I went to see her play, I had to look at the potential of a
Nicky Anosike. I really admired her drive and intensity and competitiveness.
And when I made a home visit and met her mother and it was a done deal, I just
fell in love with the family and a strong mother of eight children, a single
parent. And I saw in her mom and in Nicky Anosike something that I thought was
really, really special. She's very very committed to her academics, she's
obviously a great student. But there's something special inside of her and I
said last weekend, she's just cut out of a different cloth. And when I put her
in the starting lineup I went to each one of my staff members and I said, do
not let me take her out of the lineup. I'm going to want to, because I want to
see her turn it over and I'm going to see her miss easy shots, but don't let
me do it. And sure enough, when I even thought about it, they said, you can't
do that.



Q. Did you take a walk with her?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: We did. We walked out -- we were on Staten Island and went
out and watched the ferry coming across and just talked about her life and it
was interesting. She couldn't look at me. We did a commercial yesterday and
she couldn't look at me. I said, "Nicky, why aren't you looking at me?" And
she says "Coach, I can't look at you, I couldn't look at you in the visit, I
didn't look at you on campus." And I said, "Well, that's okay, just keep
playing the way you're playing, you don't have to look at me. Maybe one of
these days you will." But just getting to know more about Nicky, and
convincing Nicky that we would take care of her and provide her with a great
family environment at Tennessee and that's no different from recruiting anyone
else, that's how we have really disciplined our program in a lot of ways. But
the family model has been key for us when kids are willing to leave from New
York or California, and come to Knoxville, Tennessee, that's a big change for
them. And we want them to know we'll be their family and their home away from
home.



Q. I had one original question, but something since you just hit on, Nicky,
how much did her mother play into that; it sounds like she recruited you as
much as you recruited her maybe?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: I didn't know. Her mom told me that she watched a lot of
games on TV and she liked the discipline. She's a woman of small stature and
yet she's extremely disciplined and very demanding and challenging of her
family, of her children. And when we talked about academics and we have a no-
mess up-front rule, you go to class; you don't go to class, you don't play.
You're there at the university first and foremost to get a degree. I just
remember Ngozi saying, "Now, when Nicky gets to Tennessee," and Nicky looked
at her like, "mom?" And she just kept on. She said, "No, this is the place you
need to be." And I think she had a great influence on Nicky, but fortunately,
when Nicky came to campus I thought she really liked the teammates that she
would be joining and trusted the coaching staff, but I think her mom had a,
obviously, a big influence on her final decision.



Q. What's it like, and I know you've done this obviously several times in your
career, but now in a Final Four to look down at the opposite bench, you got
two coaches over there that you're probably pretty close to, particularly with
Semeka being so close to your last national championship?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: It was great to see Semeka Randall and also Al Brown and
obviously two people that spent a lot of time at the University of Tennessee
and had very positive impact on our success while they were with us. And I'm
just really proud for them and I am sure they have had the same impact at
Michigan State and been a real asset to the program there and they really seem
to be enjoying it. Semeka, you know, is really -- I was curious to see how she
was going to be as a coach. She was always a real competitive player and tough
and I just, I was anxious to see if she could put those tennis shoes aside and
really think about being a coach. And she said she really likes it. She said
that this is something that she thinks that she could do for a long time.



Q. We were up at the concourse earlier for the autograph session. What's it
like having so many fans, not just from Knoxville but you talked to some of
these fans and they're from all over the country, and then to hear them talk
to you and talk about how you've been able and the Lady Vols have been able to
touch their lives.



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, it's obviously a tremendous compliment to our
student-athletes and to our basketball program. All of our student-athletes
understand that they're role models and they have to decide what kind of role
models they want to be. And they're the first to sign autographs and talk to
kids and you just never know whether it's an elderly person or a child, what
something like that means to other people, and to me that's just part of our
responsibility. Basketball is one thing, but being able to touch lives is far
more important when you look at the big picture. And I think that our student-
athletes understand that now better. I hope they never turn down an autograph.
And I hope they take the time to really speak to the people that they make a
difference for.



Q. Outside of the fact there was a pretty good team in the northeast, New
England, has there been something about getting this 7th championship that has
seemed so elusive, and has it begun to take on the characteristics of trying
to win your first championship?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, I'll say this: I think I've managed to put things in
perspective as a coach, and I think that's important to do, because as a
friend of mine said the other day, this is not always a happy profession. And
sometimes if we're unrealistic about our chances or what we accomplish in the
end for us a national championship or absolutely nothing, I think I would be
miserable at what I do. And I think I have to be realistic so I can be happy
and enjoy the process. The journey is so important, and for that, as I've
walked off the court while I've been disappointed, the disappointment is for
the student-athletes because I know how much they want to win a championship,
every year, every team. And yet the fact that they haven't been able to do
that doesn't mean they're not winners, doesn't mean they haven't been
competitive. If you look at in the last three years what Connecticut has
accomplished, I think they have had the best talent in the country. I really
do. And so sometimes you just have to give credit where credit is due and
continue to persevere and try and get back here and get on this stage where
who knows what can happen. You got to be here for it to happen.



Q. Joanne P. McCallie yesterday said kind of jokingly that when she was at
Northwestern she played you guys and scored 20. My question is do you remember
her as a player, do you remember that game and how is your relationship with
her changed now that she's in the coaching ranks?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, to be honest with you, I don't remember her as a
player. We didn't do a lot of scouting reports. Obviously she got 20; I don't
know how I could not remember that. I think I was more upset with Dawn Marsh
that day than anybody else if it's the day I'm recalling, but she's done a
great job as a coach and I certainly know her as a coach and will remember her
and obviously Joanne's done a great job, so you think about the impact she's
had. I don't think many people would remember my playing days either, but I am
a little older than Joanne so let's don't offend her, don't mention that.



Q. Seimone Augustus is named National Player of the Year today and you faced
her many times; can you just talk about the impact she's had on the women's
game?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Seimone Augustus is -- she's had a great impact on the
game. And I'm not at all surprised by that. Watching her in high school, and I
went to her last home game in which was standing room only, and she literally
just scored in a variety of ways and at will, I mean just with no real effort.
She is -- she reminds me a lot then of Chamique Holdsclaw and still does. The
pull-up jump shot, her ability to put the ball on the floor. She obviously can
go in and post up. The impact she's had on LSU obviously has taken them to two
Final Fours now. And certainly she is one of the most talented players to come
out of our conference and that says an awful lot.



Q. Pat, it seems like every time you reach a coaching milestone the chatter
begins about maybe you should try coaching on the men's side. Does part of you
find it, I don't know if "insulting" is the right word, that seems to be this
thought that the only way you can validate yourself is if you try to coach
males?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, it's not an insult. I mean it's the reality of the
society we live in and I'm not -- I don't think that I have anything to prove
as a coach. And a lot of people think, well, if a female coach is in the men's
game, then you've arrived. I love this game. I love the women's game. I do
feel like that I can have much more influence here on the lives of these young
women and that's what I want to do. I want to continue to help these young
women understand life as well as basketball and learn to compete and to be
able to leave here as confident young women that can make it in the real
world, not just on the court.



Q. Obviously the Women's Final Four has grown in stature since the first time
you were here. What do you remember about your first visit and as a follow to
that, do you think there is a little bit of a shock for first-timers?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, my first visit to the NCAA was obviously in Norfolk
and I just -- of course going to the AIAW Tournament, just to take you back,
there were 16 teams there. And our first trip was my third year of coaching
and we were in Minnesota. And we had a consolation game in AIAW and we
finished third. We lost in the opening game to Delta State. And when we went
to Norfolk, I just remember it was not a happy ending for us. Louisiana Tech
clearly took care of us in that game. But I could tell the difference. We had
a nice bandwidth, there was a lot more media there, just NCAA Championship
meant that we had instant credibility now in our game and we had a lot more
attention from the media and from television and so it just took it to a whole
different level. It was a level of respect, which the women's game had not had
up until that point.



Q. What about the first-timers now?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: The first time, obviously I think now it's, I'm amazed at
being back here a number of times, how much more comfortable I am. I can
remember I didn't understand what I was going into and at that point I was
nervous. And obviously you try and keep that from your players and just try to
prepare them. I think I probably overprepared. I think I -- we probably
practiced more than we do now. We don't prepare any less in terms of our
scouting, but on the floor it's more about getting used to the floor and the
rims and the lighting, same thing that Shanna is talking about, as opposed to
putting in one more play or trying to change things at this point in time. So
it is much better now because I'm not as confused about anything. We just have
our routine.



Q. You were just talking a little bit about the importance of your players
acting as role models. It seems that particularly of late people have been
talking about you as a role model, not just for women in basketball and in
coaching but sort of women in sport as a whole and is that something that you
sort of constantly keep in mind and think of as an important responsibility of
yours?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: I don't think about it that much, no. More than anything I
just want to be Pat Summitt. I want to make sure that I always understand
being successful and winning doesn't make you better than anyone else. I've
been really fortunate and very blessed to have the job I have and be able to
work with the young people that I work with and have the coaching staff. My
coaching staff just doesn't get the credit that they deserve. From that
standpoint it's -- am I aware that I'm a role model? Yes. But all I want to do
is be a good person and a good coach and hopefully a good ambassador for this
game. When I'm thinking about what I do and the role that I play.



Q. Kim Mulkey has talked a lot about your story where you called her when she
was pregnant and becoming a mom. I was wondering if she's so competitive if
you'll talk about the mom side of Kim and what you see with that.



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, I'm sure it's changed her a little bit. It changed me
a lot. But I see her with her kids and they're a big part of this. Tyler, I
mean he's just grown up with the game. He was 14 days old when he took his
first trip with us. And I think he was born on Friday and at practice on
Tuesday the next week. But that's a great life for kids. And why? Because
they're around kids and they're around the game. And he's learned so much. And
I know Kim's children have probably benefited tremendously from it, just to
have the role models that they have. Certainly for her son as for my son, I
mean he has a whole different level of respect for women and for what these
young women have accomplished.



Q. You mentioned that Semeka and Al earlier, for a program that doesn't play
you regularly, do you think it helps in preparation to have a former player
and a former coach from your staff on their team?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, I think just the fact that they are familiar with our
team and our style of play. Of course there's not a lot of secrets when you're
on TV as much as we are, but I think it may be just more what to expect from
our team as an insider's look. But I think as far as the X's and the O's, I
mean everyone knows what we're going to do, and it's just a matter of
execution of players and I don't think that -- hopefully it's not going to be
an edge that we can't overcome. I know they're going to be very prepared. I'm
extremely impressed with Michigan State as a basketball team, the balance.
They got four starters in double figures. They didn't just get here because
they were a good team; they got here because they were a great team. We played
Stanford. I know what they did to Stanford and I have tremendous respect for
this team coming in, our players as well.



Q. Two questions. One, what impresses you about Kristin Haynie, their point
guard, and also with their match-up zone, is more important for Shyra to start
off and get off to a good start or just let Shanna need to start hitting shots
against that early?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: First of all to speak to Haynie, what a great point guard.
You know obviously she can put it on the floor, she can catch and shoot. I
think that the thing that I've been so impressed with is is that she makes
great decisions whether it's to get the ball inside. When she gives it up, she
moves extremely well without it. Or obviously to make a play herself, she
just, to me, she's physically strong and very heady. And I told our basketball
team I think she will be one of the best points guards they have faced this
season and obviously we have faced a lot of good ones. We didn't get here with
one player having to step up early and play and I think that Michigan State
can say the same thing. It's not like they don't have an All-American and we
don't have an All-American. But we have players that can make All-American
plays and we rely on the team. With the match-up zone, the one thing I can
tell you, I'm just glad we have Vanderbilt in our conference. We have played
their match-up three times and they're very, very good at it and a lot like
Michigan State. I think you cannot get impatient. You have to be patient if
you want to play against the match-up. And certainly they have a lot of
patience and we'll have to demonstrate the same patience offensively.



Q. Is there any aspect of tomorrow night's game that you do not want to see
Michigan State dominate?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: The boards. We want to be real stingy when it comes to who
gets the ball off the glass. I think that at this point in time in particular
we understand typically games at this time of the year, or throughout the
season, they're not won on first shots. And we have to be mindful of really
controlling the board play. That's not anything new. Everyone knows. Defense
and board play has just been the trademark of who we are and of our program
year in and year out. So that's going to be a strong focus on the part of our
team and our coaching staff.



Q. I was wondering if you were, if you had to leave the game and retire or
something, not that I'm trying to push you out --



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well you wouldn't be the first. (Laughter.)



Q. -- are you pleased with the direction of the women's college game right now
and would you feel like with coaches like Kim and Pokey that it would be in
good hands?



COACH PAT SUMMITT: Well, certainly I'm excited about the direction that the
women's game is taking and has taken over the years. I get real emotional
sometimes just when I turn on the tube and I see all the fans and just see the
level of play and to see players like Kim and Pokey that are now coaching the
game. To me that's what it's all about. You got a lot of great players, that
have played this game. And they were two great, great point guards. We didn't
have the success I wish we would have had against both of them as players. But
certainly as coaches they have already been difference-makers. What Kim's done
in five years just it speaks volumes to her talent as a coach, a communicator,
a teacher. And then you look at Pokey, and I think that it would be very, very
difficult to lose your mentor to illness and then have to turn around and take
over the team who obviously was very emotional, you know, stressed and upset
about Coach Gunter and do what she did a year ago. And now this year it's more
of Pokey's team and again, they're on the same path, on the same track. And
she's just done an awesome job with this LSU team. So I think that if you take
those two, they would be good examples of that great players can in fact
become great coaches.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Pat. Thank you very much.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 2, 2005

  

### [Steffanie Blackmon](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=16318)

### [Kim Mulkey](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13704)

### [Chelsea Whitaker](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14506)

### [Sophia Young](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13856)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Joining me on the podium is going to be Chelsea Whitaker, Sophia
Young, Steffanie Blackmon and of course, Coach Kim Mulkey-Robertson. So we'll
take questions for the student-athletes first. But first we'll start with an
opening statement from the Coach. Kim, we'll ask you to make an opening
statement.

_

COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: We're excited to be here as anybody would be.
We're happy for Baylor University.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We'll go to questions for the players.

_ 

Q. Sophia, having your mother come here to watch you play, what has been her
feelings about this seeing you at this stage of your life on the basketball
court?



SOPHIA YOUNG: Well she's very excited to be here. She's very excited to just
be in the audience or in the stands watching us play. She's never really seen
a college game live before. So it's an experience for her. She's excited.



Q. Chelsea, what's caused your improvement as a back court player? Is it that
you're healthy now or that you picked up something else?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: I guess I picked up some confidence on the way and I guess
it's coming at the right time. Because my team needs me to play big and take
some pressure off the post game inside. So I'm just a lot more confident now.



Q. I guess starting with Chelsea and maybe the other players can address it
too, did you feel like back in November that you might see LSU again here,
that you might both be here in the Final Four?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Well, I'm sure it was a goal for their team and it was
definitely a goal for us. Maybe it's destiny, I don't know. I didn't really
think that we would meet them or anybody in particular. I just know that I
wanted to make it here and I'm happy to be here and I'm sure they're happy to
be here and we'll just have to see who wins tomorrow.

STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I definitely had a good feeling that we would see them
again. I didn't know where but I know the only place we would see them is the
NCAA tournaments because we weren't in any other tournaments with them, but I
felt like we would see them at the end.



Q. Temeka Johnson was saying earlier sometimes it's great and sometimes it's
tough having an ex-college point guard for a coach because they're such
perfectionist. You have one too. I wonder if you could sort of talk about the
pluses of having her and is she kind of a -- is she tough on you?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Well, she always says everybody wants somebody to be hard on
you in life and that's what I got. So I appreciate it. I want to be better
every time I step on the court and that's the only way you're going to get
better is if somebody is screaming at you every time you're on the court. I
told her that's why I came here. I would never go to a school where the coach
didn't play the position that I played and that's the challenge that I took
when I came here and I accepted it.



Q. Stephanie, after the way that game ended, the first game against LSU, was
there part of you that really did want to play them again?



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: Definitely. To come back from that large deficit from the
first half, we found a lot -- we found out a lot about our team in the second
half. And you always want a second shot like, okay, what if we don't have a
first half like that, what's going to be the outcome? So definitely I wanted
another shot and see how we could do without such a shaky start.



Q. For any of the players, we hear all the time that players dream about
playing for championships, being in a Final Four; how different is the reality
of being here, how different is that from what you might imagine growing up?



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Well, I mean it's everything I expected and more. I mean
like we always say, we're used to being at home talking about we should there
be, we should be playing them or we can beat that team but clearly we didn't
because we're at home but now we're actually here. And it's just a blessing to
be able to be a part of this and it could be a once-in-a-lifetime experience
and we're all kind of soaking it up and it's just a great thing for us and for
our university and this program.

SOPHIA YOUNG: Good answer. (Laughter.)



Q. Sophia and Stephanie, can you talk about, I know you have only been out
here one time but what was the arena like and obviously it's a big open air;
does that affect your shot or will you get enough time in here that you can
get over that?



SOPHIA YOUNG: It's pretty open. I don't know. I think I like it. I like the
court. I like the court, there's a lot of lights. I think it's going to be a
really good place to play. I just need to get a little more shooting done and
I should be all right.

STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I agree. I'm not bothered by the court. I think any court
you play on you want to be familiar with it, but I like the setup and I think
it's going to be a good atmosphere.



Q. In light of the tragedy a couple years ago, what do you guys think this
making the Final Four has done to boost the morale at Baylor among not only
the basketball program but maybe the school in general.



STEFFANIE BLACKMON: I think it's really brought the community together just to
see how many people actually come out and support and are so excited about
something in Waco with the women's basketball team, it's been great. We have
been received so heavily and it's just been awesome to get every sen- off more
and more people. Just excited. Getting e-mails, things like that. It's just
wonderful to turn it around and when people think about Waco they can think
about something positive.



Q. Sophia, you had a rather somewhat unorthodox route to Baylor from your
hometown. I wonder if you could just talk about what you knew about Baylor,
when you first heard about Baylor and maybe how Kim charmed you into coming
there.



SOPHIA YOUNG: I found out about Baylor my senior year in high school and that
was the first time I heard about it. I didn't hear anything about it before my
senior year. And through Coach Robertson, Coach Mulkey found me. I don't know
that she came to take a look at me and I guess she liked what she saw. And
then she gave me a scholarship.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: I'm going to release the players then. All right. For the
players. This is the last one.

_ 

Q. Chelsea, if you could just talk about the fact that you saw LSU in person;
what struck you about their talent and what you think they're biggest threat
is tomorrow.



CHELSEA WHITAKER: Well, transition game is probably the best part of their
game. Any given time any given player can just take the ball and start running
down the court and starting the break and everybody else will fill in. And
they're a very talented team and they have a lot of athleticism and they're
just a tough match-up, they crash the boards hard and do all the little things
that makes them a Final Four team.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: All right. We're going to release these ladies back to their
locker room. Now we're going to continue with your questions for the Coach.

_ 

Q. Could you talk about your recruitment of Temeka Johnson when you were at
Tech and are you surprised by the way she's improved and how good she is now.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: No, I'm not surprised. I saw Temeka Johnson
throughout her high school career and she reminded me a lot of myself. She has
a quick first step off the dribble. She has unbelievable penetrating skills
and she makes all the players around her better because she delivers passes
when they need it. My recruitment of her was I recruited her while I was at
Louisiana Tech and the time she was coming out of high school was when I made
the move to Baylor and she chose LSU.



Q. The way last season ended, I know what the feeling was; how long did it
take you to kind of put that behind you and then regroup and start looking
forward into this year?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You never forget it, but I think probably when I
got back on the court with the team this year, I like to tell this story,
throughout the summer I had watched my children play little league softball
and little league baseball and I couldn't handle some of it. I just still
relived the moment and I just never felt that there was a finish to the
season. It took me a long time to get over it. I'll never forget it. But I
think that when we got back on the floor this year and could put a basketball
in our hands...



Q. There will be a new champion this year with Connecticut having been
eliminated. But there's a chance for yourself, for Michigan State or even LSU
to put kind of a new face on college basketball; do you all kind of understand
that as well as just winning the championship itself?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, we understand that there will be a new
champion. I don't think any of us in the coaching profession think to next
year; we're thinking about the next game. The game is getting good. There's so
many teams now that are good. And that's good for women's basketball. It draws
an interest from programs and from regions of the country that weren't back
there when I played. And parity is good for our game. And you're going to
always see the Tennessees and those guys because they committed long ago when
nobody else did commit and they got a legendary Coach, but it's good for some
us new folks to get a little bit of exposure.



Q. Could you talk about just how difficult it is to cover Seimone Augustus and
maybe just a little bit about her versatility out there.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: There are have very few girls in the game as you
watch it that have the ability to elevate and shoot it right in your face.
Seimone Augustus is that type of player. I said it when we played them back in
November, that she's the best player in the game today. And my mind has not
changed. She won the Wade Trophy today and rightfully so. She has got a team
that is so difficult to guard with, in my opinion, the best freshman in the
country, and fifth year senior point guard, and Seimone you're not going to
stop her, she's too good a player. What you hope to do is that you don't let
those around her have All-American nights. The girl is good and I watched her
when she was at Capitol High School in Baton Rouge. She just has elevated that
program to where it is today.



Q. You talked about how you really don't stop Seimone but one thing you had
you didn't have the first game is Abby playing a lot more. How excited are you
just to see what she might be able to do to at least slow down Seimone
Augustus a little bit?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Abby played six minutes in the game when we played
LSU earlier in the year. We were still trying to find our identity, who our
rotation of players were going to be, and Abby in mid-season was inserted into
the lineup and she's made it difficult to let anybody else get any minutes
because of her defense. Abby is very physical, she has the same size that
Seimone has. She just is the type of kid that her defensive effort and
intensity really spreads to the whole floor with the other kids on our team.
They have taken great pride that their defense has brought them to this point
and I think it's going to be a very good match-up. My concern is if Abby gets
in trouble, then what am I going to do.



Q. Will you talk about the difference maybe you felt between being a player in
the Final Four and now as a head coach in the Final Four.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: The differences are all these wrinkles and this
gray hair up here. When you're a player, you're in control of the game, you
have the basketball in your hands and you feel very confident. As a Coach you
can teach and show them so much, but when you get out there on that sideline,
they got to go do what you taught them. And that's a big difference for me,
whether we're in the Final Four or playing any game is that I always like to
have that basketball in my hands. The excitement for me as a coach, a lot of
coaches get excited because it's the ultimate in our game is to take your team
to a Final Four, and I'm no different than in that I feel that way. But
honestly the excitement for me, after having been in 12 of these, is the Waco
community, is the Waco community and the fans and our school and these
players. The excitement in their eyes and what it means to all of us or all of
those people excites me more than anything.



Q. You mentioned your own Final Four experience both as a player and as an
assistant Coach. Can you talk a little bit about, is there anything you can do
to prepare your kids for what they're going to experience when they step out
there tomorrow night in front of 28, 29,000 people?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Nothing more than maybe casually telling them
you're going to play in front of 30,000 people, you're going to have a lot of
media ask you questions over and over and it will be the same redundant
questions. Things like that. But as far as playing on the floor, I don't think
you overcoach and I don't think you overemphasize, it's another basketball
game, you're just on a different stage. And I know that when that clock ticks
and it's time to go play, I don't anticipate them playing any different than
they have to this point. They are very mature and they have a sense of
calmness about them. We have seniors on this team that just don't get rattled
anymore. We have a demeanor about us that when we walk off that floor, if and
when we get beat, we're going to shake the opponent's hand and say you
deserved it because you played better. And that's kind of been their approach
the last month of the season.



Q. Is there any one aspect of the game that you really do not want LSU to
dominate tomorrow?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Transition. Running the floor. They just -- and
that starts with Temeka Johnson. I said this all along, Seimone Augustus is
the best player in the country, Temeka Johnson is their MVP. That young lady
gets a ball and even on made buckets they're running. The opponent scores,
they're throwing it in quickly and they're running. I don't know how you stop
that. When you have a point guard that that is their game and that's the way
they play, it's very difficult to eliminate that part of their game and that
concerns me a whole lot.



Q. You're saying how excited everyone is in Waco now. Can you take it back two
years to right after the tragedy on the men's side, what it was like for the
women's program and what it took during those past couple years to get to
where you guys are now?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, as I said, I'm so tired of talking about the
men's tragedy, that was two years ago. But I'm going to answer your question
in that that did not affect our basketball team and what I was hired to do.
One player on our team I think knew Patrick Dennehy. And it happened at a time
during the summer months where there's not a whole lot going on probably in
the sports world, so it was really magnified. It was negative for our
university, but the thing that was most important to me, if my players were
okay and my players' families and their parents were okay, then I was okay.
And we were okay. And we started playing basketball and won and got to the
Sweet 16 and it erased all of that. Our men's national championship in tennis
erased all of that. Two Olympians in track and field erased all of that. We
don't -- we're beyond that. It's never even brought up around our university
until we're asked from the media questions about it. It's not going to
identify Baylor University. There's too many great alumni, there's too many
prominent people from the State of Texas. We are the oldest institution of
higher learning in the State of Texas, and one tragedy is not going to
identify our university and that's the approach I took and that's the approach
our players took.



Q. I know it was early in the year, but what did you learn from the LSU game
or about your team or what maybe from that game helped you the rest of the
year?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: I learned that we're not too bad. When you can be
down 20 to LSU in your opening game and come back and have the ball in your
hands to win it and you just didn't execute, we're going to be okay. I really
felt that way, we are going to be okay. We hated to lose, as all competitors
do, but I thought, wow, we hung in there with them and we played as poor as
you could possibly play in the first half. Now whether we played poor because
LSU made us play poor, it doesn't matter. We fought and we came back and had
the ball in our hands down one and we just didn't get it done. And I just left
there feeling as good as you could feel after a loss.



Q. Did you think you might see them again back here?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Never really put much thought to it. Our focus was
Big 12, Big 12 tournament, and see what happens in the NCAA tournament.
Certainly you knew they were going to be the top team in the country all year
but just never really thought we might match up with them again. You don't
think like that throughout the course of the year.



Q. How much has the sort of off-court experience of the Final Four, than
everything else, changed from your days as a player and your days as an
assistant Coach to today?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: Well, it's become a big event now. It's a
happening, if you want to say it that way. When we played in Final Fours, it
was certainly big and in our world and in our eyes at that time and in the
early '80s, we were a pretty dominant program. There were a handful of
programs back then that you knew were going to be in the Final Four every
year. And now the interest is so large and planned in advance and you have so
many teams that are capable of getting here that it really, it's magnified
now. And there are a lot of outside things that you have to do that are
mandatory. We didn't have those back when I played. You just showed up for the
game and the only game that was really televised was the championship game.



Q. I apologize for asking this in advance. This is water under the bridge I
know, but could you just talk a little bit about what happened at the end of
your stay at Louisiana Tech. I know you're happy at Baylor now, but just the
idea that someone with such an institution at that school, that they didn't --



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: That's kind of what I was wondering. (Laughter.)
No, listen, it's pretty simple: It doesn't matter what you hear, it doesn't --
look, I spent 19 wonderful years of my life there. 38 years of my life were
spent in one state. No matter where my career takes me I'll always be a
Louisiana girl. But I am very, very loyal, I am loyal to a fault. And I felt
that after 19 years of being at Louisiana Tech, and Leon stepped aside so I
could inherit that program and I will never forget that, I felt that I was
worthy of a five-year contract. It's the standard in the business. I had
turned down three head coaching jobs with significantly more pay to stay at my
alma mater. They started out with a three-year contract, they felt they were
doing me a favor by offering me a four-year, I was hurt and I left. That's the
story. Nothing more. And thank God for unanswered prayers.



Q. Labeling yourself a Louisiana girl, I'm wondering if you've given yourself
-- have you thought at all about competing against your native brothers and
sisters tomorrow?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: What you got to understand is LSU is 30 minutes
from my home growing up. And I'm going to give you a little history here,
okay? In Louisiana, okay, Tangipahoa Parish -- you're going to ask me how to
spell that right -- Tangipahoa Parish is where I grew up. 30 minutes from the
LSU campus, family, friends, you just grow up, that's all you hear. I could
sing their fight song for you. So there will be lots of folks out here
tomorrow that love me regardless of where I am coaching, but they watched me
grow up. And I recruited Pokey Chatman when I was at Louisiana Tech. LSU was
all I ever heard of growing up until I left to go to Louisiana Tech to play.
Louisiana Tech was four and a half hours from my home. The easy decision for
me would have been to go to LSU and family and friends could watch me play.
But at the time the right decision was to go to Louisiana Tech. And so playing
against them, the only thing about playing LSU that bothers me is they're
going to get to go home and eat crawfish and I'm not. (Laughter.) But I'm
going to have some of my folks come up in a couple weeks and bring crawfish
and we're going to have a crawfish boil and then my appetite will be
satisfied.



Q. Can you talk about in contrast how LSU handled the deal with Pokey when
their job became open. You said the other day that there should have been no
question in their mind that she should be the coach. It seems like you really
feel like they handled that the right way and making her the head coach and
keeping her around.



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You're absolutely right. That lady spent as many
years there as I did. That's a no-brainer. If you're the athletic director you
walk down the hall and say, "Sue Gunter, who do you want?" She says "Pokey
Chatman," end of conversation. They handled it beautifully, just the way it
should have been.



Q. You mentioned recruiting Pokey, can you talk about what you saw in her as a
player and if some of those same attributes have carried over to her coaching
style?



COACH KIM MULKEY-ROBERTSON: You saw a very confident young lady, you saw a
Temeka Johnson-type of player. Pokey didn't have the talent around her that
Temeka does at that time when she chose to go to LSU, but in high school, she
was from the Hahnville area and she just was a competitor. She made those
around her better. She was very vocal and a leader out there on the floor.
Everything that you look for in a point guard. And she was a -- she was one
that we fought hard to try to get. She wasn't leaving south Louisiana.



End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

|  | [home](http://www.asapsports.com) | [jobs](jobs_new.php) | [contact
us](contact.php)  
---|---|---  
| [![](images/logo_interior.png)](http://www.asapsports.com) |

   [products](captioning.php)
   [recent interviews](recent.php)
   [FastScripts archive](show_event.php)
   [about ASAP Sports](about.php)

  
  
---|---  
  
| Our Clients: |

![](images/NBA_logo.gif) ![](images/MLB_logo.gif) ![](images/ATP_logo.gif)
![](images/NHL_logo.gif) ![](images/PGA_logo.gif) ![](images/NCAA_logo.gif)
![](images/NFL_logo.gif)![](images/CBS_logo.gif)![](images/NHRA_logo.gif)![](images/Indy_logo.gif)![](images/Nascar_logo.gif)![](images/MLS_logo.gif)![](images/WNBA_logo.gif)![](images/Wimbledon_logo.gif)![](images/PGA_logo.gif)![](images/EuroTour_logo.gif)![](images/LPGA_logo.gif)![](images/USGA_logo.gif)![](images/USTA_logo.gif)

|  
---|---|---  
| ![](images/spacer.gif) |  | Browse by Sport  
---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| Find us on | [![ASAP sports on
Facebook](images/fb_icon.gif)](http://www.facebook.com/pages/ASAP-
Sports/122368829031) | [![ASAP sports on
Twitter](images/twitter_icon.png)](http://twitter.com/asapsports)  
---|---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [![ASAP Sports RSS](images/rss_icon.png)](rss12.php) | [Subscribe to
RSS](rss12.php)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| [Click to go to  
Asaptext.com](http://www.asaptext.com) |
[![ASAPtext.com](images/arrow_icon.gif)](http://www.asaptext.com)  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
| ![ASAP Sports e-Brochure](images/asap_logo_small.gif) |  View our  
e-Brochure  
---|---  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif) |

# [NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL
FOUR](http://www.asapsports.com/show_events.php?category=11&year=2005&title=NCAA+WOMEN%27S+FINAL+FOUR)

  

## April 2, 2005

  

### [Seimone Augustus](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=14353)

### [Pokey Chatman](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13865)

### [Temeka Johnson](http://www.asapsports.com/show_player.php?id=13917)

  
_INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA_  
  
_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Coach Chatman, we'll start with you, please, for an opening
statement.

_

COACH POKEY CHATMAN: I guess I'll start with stating the obvious but I think
it can't go without mentioning we're ecstatic to be here, like any Coach. But
first and foremost, I think for us, we're fortunate enough that we have been
able to hang our hats on the defensive end of the floor. Thinking back I had
more questions asked about the previous match-up with Baylor than I had asked
about anything. This is what we have taken from the previous match-up: Nothing
and everything. And my point in that is that Baylor was an extremely talented
team in November, and with the leadership of Kim and her go-to players,
obviously it starts with their post tandem, there's so much more to the method
of their madness. It obviously starts with Sophia and Blackmon, but there's
complimentary players surrounding them from the point to the shooters; Niemann
coming off the bench. For us it's going to take a tremendous defensive effort
if we are to be victorious. And I go back to our previous outing with Duke. It
was nice to see our kids go down by 12 and not panic and hang their hats on
the defense end of the floor and go to work on the boards and to lead to us a
victory. Thanks.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going with questions for the student-athletes first.
Please, give me a high sign.

_ 

Q. For Temeka, I would like to ask now that the team has gotten back here, you
truly made it your goal to get back here this year. Will the experience of the
Final Four be a little bit easier? Do you have some better ideas of what to
expect and how to especially prepare for the semifinal games?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: I think we will compare, we were preparing for the games
different than we would have prepared any other year. I think it's all the
excitement of everything else away from basketball has kind of sunk in and
we're settled with that part. But as far as us comparing everything, it
doesn't change, we have always prepared the same for every basketball game
that we have played.



Q. Temeka, how different are you all from the game in November? What are some
of your strengths now maybe compared to then and things like that?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: We have grown even more as a team, as individuals, Sylvia is
no longer a freshman anymore. Next to her name there is the "FR, but to us
she's grown so much that she's really not a freshman. All our other freshmen
are no longer freshmen. They're a part of our season and we're all pretty much
on the same page. We have grown collectively as a whole and learned a lot from
each other.



Q. Temeka, could you just talk about Sylvia and I guess her process when she's
been here obviously it's all new to her, even know it's not new to y'all. Have
you guys been holding her hand, talking about the things outside the game,
making sure she's focused on the game?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: We're not putting a lot of pressure on her compounding
basketball into every second of the day. We're not really holding her hand
either. We're allowing her to grow as a person. We just along the way we're
right alongside her whenever she needs us she knows that we have her back.
Anything that she needs we're right there behind her. But for the basketball,
I think Seimone and I do a good job of talking to her and allowing her to know
that it is okay for her to make a mistake and just be free. We have her back,
no matter what.



Q. Seimone, I think you said after that first Baylor game that it felt like
March out there. Obviously you saw that this was the kind of team that could
be at this level. What are some of the things that they do real well and match
up with you guys real well with.



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: I think you look back to what Coach said. They have a good
inside tandem as well as they have a great role players that know how to play
their roles. They get the ball inside as well as when it's dished off from the
post they spot up and knock down shots. So it's going to be difficult to
defend especially on the inside but it's going to take a team effort to stop
that tandem.



Q. Seimone, I would like to ask you also, getting here, last year, getting to
the Final Four was one thing. Now that you're back, what do you feel might be
different or are some things a little more relaxed or even a little more
focused than from last year's experience?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: I think we're more focused on what we have to do. We felt
that we have some unfinished business here some things that we need to get
done here. So it's more putting everything into perspective and understanding
that we enjoy being here, we are glad to be here, but we have a lot of things
that we have to do in a short period of time.



Q. This is for anyone: How much do you guys joke about the Miami clique, the
three players you have, kind of the Miami Pipeline, and do you joke with them
at all?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: Yeah, we do joke with them, only because they mess with us,
especially people from Louisiana. They say they have the best things in
Florida from water to food to entertainment. So we normally mess with them,
but it's all in fun and games. They're great players. They're also great
teammates and they keep everybody focused as well as we have times when we can
relax and have fun.



Q. For Temeka and Seimone, after the first meeting, the comeback that Baylor
made, their Coach and some of their players explained that as a team that
plays with emotion. Maybe you could just talk about the emotion that's within
your team and what we'll see as far as the semi final game.



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: I was trying to take a pass on that. I think that they are a
great team and they fought back and in November, and but I think I think we
had the same fire, that same desire that they have. Everybody wants to be in
the national championship game and we understand that it's going to be a tough
battle for us. But like Coach said, we had to come back from 12 points down in
that Duke game and that showed a lot of character and composure that we kept
in order to fight back. So that speaks a lot for our team as well, to be able
to come back on a great team like Duke and win the game.



Q. Temeka, in your judgment, what's the most important thing or things a
player has to do to be a good point guard at this level?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: Lead the best way that she knows how in every aspect of it. Be
the leader that she's supposed to be and pretty much do whatever she has to do
to help take her team as far as she is going to take them and get all of them
involved. Help do whatever it takes to make her team successful.

SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: As well as be five foot three. (Laughter.)



Q. Temeka, it's I guess a cliche in sports to say we're not worried about the
other team; we're just worried about ourselves. But is that a philosophy that
this team really sticks to and I know whenever we ask about the opponent you
guys just kind of shrug it off. I mean you're just focused on what you guys
need to do and that kind of thing.



TEMEKA JOHNSON: Pretty much. And that's not any disrespect to the opponent.
But I think if we focus on what we have to do, then everything else will fall
into line. The more we execute well defensively and offensively, the easier
things come for us. So I think it's easier, it's best that way for us to
concentrate on ourselves.



Q. Can you talk about Seimone's impact on the team, she's just named National
Player of the Year?



TEMEKA JOHNSON: I'm glad she's on my team. I can tell you that. I think
everything has been said about her. What you see is what you get. The person
that she is, the player that she is, what you see is what you get basically.
She helps out the team tremendously. She takes off -- I know she takes the
pressure off of me. She helps in that aspect. She opens up a lot of things for
other people because of the attention that she gets and her minutes, because
all the people that's drawn to her. I'm glad that she was named National
Player of the Year and that she's just got the trophy. She deserves it more
than anyone that I know.



Q. Seimone, do you think in that first meeting with Baylor that there was ever
a time when both teams were playing their best against each other because you
guys had the stronger first half and they had the stronger second half. Did we
get to see the best of play Baylor versus the best of LSU at the same time in
that game?



SEIMONE AUGUSTUS: I don't think so. The best consists of 40 minutes. But like
you said it was two different halves for each team. A good half for us, as far
as getting out executing and second half was kind of sluggish and they took
advantage of everything. But I wouldn't say it was the best. It was early on,
it was November, and a lot of players had to grow within our team and within
their team as well as people had to find their roles. So I can't -- I don't
think it was their best or our best. It was too early to really say, you know,
it was too early.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: We're going to let these ladies go back to the locker room now.
Now we'll continue with questions for the Coach.

_ 

Q. I wonder if you could talk a little about Kim Mulkey, tried to recruit you
I believe when she was at Louisiana Tech and you guys were both point guards
from the Bayou State. Can you sort of talk about your similarity as much as
you could remember her as a player. Your similarities as players and maybe
your similarities and/or differences as coaches.



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: I think that the similarities as a player is extremely
easy. Oftentimes I'm asked to compare myself to Temeka and I wish I could.
Only in my dreams. But when I think about Kim, we weren't blessed with height;
we're both five four, we weren't the quickest. Didn't quite have a vertical.
But we could think the game at a pace that usually helped us to defeat our
opponent. You find something, mental as to physical as far as to one. And I
think Kim was that type of point guard. You put players around her, she made
them better. They fed off of her. She ran her team. And I think those are some
of the things that I had to do. I was limited athletically, so I had to learn
how to think the game fast, think the game effective. And there in lies the
difference. And it always seemed that I was fortunate enough to be on teams
that were successful and I would like to credit some of that to my ability to
grow with the team, but also to develop some of that talent around us. And
that's where I see the similarities. I think in terms of coaching, we're both
in a Final Four, so we figured something out that we're doing right. It's a
different approach. Kim's maybe a little bit more animated than me; I need to
conserve some of that energy. But the bottom line is she's here and I'm here,
so we're doing something right.



Q. Same question I just asked Temeka about paying attention to yourselves
instead of the opponents. You said at the beginning that what did we learn
from that first match-up and you said nothing. I mean is this team even more
than most a team that tries to set the tempo and dictate the way a game is
going to be played and focuses on what you guys are going to do first?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Let me finish the second half of that quote. I said we
learned nothing and we learned everything. And the point is it was a long time
ago and Baylor was a very good team in November. And obviously we are here in
Indianapolis so they're a great team now. The focus, it's always 75 percent of
yourself because that's what you can control the most. We're going to scout,
we're going to get our 10, 12 tapes in, we're going to break it down. But I
think you can't forget about yourself in that process. But I want to make sure
you got that part of it. We learned a lot. I look at the schedule that
Baylor's played, I look at the schedule that we have played, and when you get
kids at this level the only thing you can do is improve and again a lot of
questions regarding Kim and her leadership and obviously that trickles down to
those players and that's why they're here.



Q. Pokey, Sylvia's had such great impact on games defensively. I was curious
as to why you continue to wait to put her in the game and don't start her.



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Well, if someone would have told me 10 months ago this
would be the case, I probably wouldn't have believed them either. But I know
all of Sylvia's basketball life she's been taught to stay near the basket,
play behind in the post, she knows how to get Sylvia open, not her teammates
and that was something that she had to learn. We didn't exactly give our
freshmen an opportunity to grow early. We kind of threw them at the wolves
with our preseason schedule. And with the leadership of Wendlyn and Tillie
Willis, it was an opportunity to bring Sylvia along at a comfortable pace. And
then what we noticed going in is when we brought her along at a comfortable
pace, we're subbing her at a time when she's fresh and she brought a little
something extra to us and it worked to our advantage. So for us it's been a
plus that we had a senior that could start the game and then come off the
bench with someone like Sylvia.



Q. With the elimination of Connecticut there will be a new champion this year
although it could be Tennessee winning a 7th. The three other coaches,
including yourself, do you all understand this is a big chance to put a new
face on women's college basketball?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: I guess I'll understand that if I have to contend with
that when all is said and done. You work so hard and you work so long to get
to this moment. And I know it's extremely difficult for you to understand
that, but the moment is Baylor. It's not about tradition, it's not about the
number of titles someone else is holding. I hope we're discussing that.



Q. Could you just talk about your team's ability to handle all of the
ancillary stuff, especially on a day like today. With autograph sessions and
how much has last year's experience helped in that process and I guess just
your thoughts on viewing it or is it different from last year?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Obviously it helps because so many of the kids have been
here before and they're able to disseminate some of that information to the
young kids and give them a prelude to what's to come. It's nice when you have
your peers that can do that. But fortunately for me I'm blessed with some kids
that are really good about perspective. They're not really high, they don't
get too low, they're very methodical and business-like in their approach. And
honestly, a day like today is perfect for these kids. They're so anxious. They
have been here, they're chomping at the bit to play. And it gives them an
opportunity to break up their day and not get too worried about what's to take
place tomorrow. So it's extremely easy at this point. The closer you get to
it, the distraction related to a championship opportunity is a welcome thing.



Q. If you could, talk about Seimone Augustus and for a player that scores that
much she seems to be an unselfish player that likes to include her teammates
and involve them in the game.



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: You said it. And for me it's great that Seimone can be
the recipient of so many individual awards and at the same time lift a team,
and that's the team on the floor, the team on the bench, the team at LSU, the
team, our community. And you think about it, she's a three player, she doesn't
have the basketball in her hands a large percentage of the time, and to me
that's what separates her from being a good player to being the great player
that she is. She understands how to move without the basketball. She
understands how to get people open. She understands "I can average six less
points and have an opportunity to compete for something special. " And all
those things go unnoticed. So for me, I am enjoying the fact that she's being
recognized for her play. It's not typical, I like to call it "old school" and
oftentimes it seems like it the game comes so easy so Seimone because she is
gifted, because she is athletic. But she's a cerebral basketball player. She
understands the intricacies of the game and oftentimes that is why she's open
on those mid-range jumpers because she understands cuts and reads and spacing.
So for me I'm sort of like Temeka, you know, I'm glad she's on my team.



Q. Abiola Webara wasn't playing a lot for Baylor. From what you've seen what
are some of the problems that she can create especially on defense?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: I think your last word said it, obviously she's a
defensive presence for them and you always start there because that seems to
be the area that you can control, not having an off night. She brings a
presence, she has some size, she's athletic, she has that mentality, attacking
an opponent. And it's been shown throughout the tournament and prior to that
and I think that's some of the things the kids were trying to allude to and in
terms of Baylor being a different team and we're a different team. We have had
some players step up, we had one player that played earlier who is injured
now. So that's November to April. But she's playing extremely well for them,
but more than that she also has the ability to attack the glass, to post up a
little bit and she's a player that's developed and flourished in their system.



Q. You talked about Kim had recruited you; is that correct?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Yes.



Q. Out of high school. Was it ever tempting to play for her, knowing what she
had done as a point guard and everything?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Yes. It was more than Kim. Growing up in Louisiana, I can
remember attending some of the Louisiana Tech games. There was a great player
back there Sandra Hodges and watching Debra, Angela Turner, Pam Gant, all
those players. And Kim and I also played the same AAU program, we wore the
same number. She lives -- she's from Hammond, Louisiana, so there was so many
similarities there. So I guess it's ironic that we're here now but it was just
a natural progression at the time. They were obviously a great program at the
time and I had the opportunity to be recruited by someone that you watched
growing up, you watch be successful as a Coach and a school that had won some
championships, it was just the next step.



Q. Who really dictates whether it's time for Seimone to start shooting more
and try to take over a game? Is that something you try to avoid as coaches or
she tries to avoid and as these games get tighter like when you were down
against Duke and things like that, the first Baylor game, is that something
important for her to do that she should take a few more shots?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: We run motion offense. We very seldom -- we don't come
down and call a play for Seimone. And it's very difficult for people to
understand. Seimone wanted so much attention that when it comes to crunch
time, the second she makes a cut, she's going to draw the defender and it's
going to leave someone else wide open. And that's what I think separates her,
because she will make that cut, knowing she's going to get bumped, held,
bumped, not get the ball, double, tripled-teamed. But she continues to do it.
And it's always going to come in the natural flow of the game. But she's a
player, a competitor when the stakes are high. I think it's just a natural
innate ability to just understand that, "I have the ball in my hand, let me be
a little bit more aggressive in my approach" but it's never from a one-on-one
standpoint; it's always in the confines of the flow of our offense. But
understanding that she is the most valuable player on the floor and we play
our offense through her; not to her, and that way the decision lies within
Seimone.



Q. Is there one aspect of the game that you really do not want to see Baylor
dominate tomorrow night?



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: Just one? (Laughter.)



Q. I don't want to give all your strategy out.



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: It's no secret with Baylor what they're good at and
that's several things. They will play to their strengths, they will attack you
offensively, inside out. And if they don't make that first shot, they're going
to try to attack and get the second one and the third and the fourth and the
fifth. And it is your ability to defend the first, because there is no defense
for the second one, so our ability to get on the boards with them on both ends
but more importantly, we need to make Baylor defend us. They play really
aggressive defense, whether it's man or zone and I think that's what you
always want to do, but for us I think it's securing boards and making them
defend us in our half court.



Q. Specifically the defense board? You don't --



COACH POKEY CHATMAN: All of them. I want all the boards.

_

DEBBIE BYRNE: Okay. Pokey. Thank you.

_

End of FastScripts...

 | ![](images/spacer.gif)  
![](images/spacer.gif)  
|  [About ASAP Sports](about.php) • [FastScripts Archive](show_event.php) •
[Recent Interviews](recent.php) • [Captioning](captioning.php) • [Upcoming
Events](upcoming.php) • [Contact Us](contact.php)  
[FastScripts](about-fast-scripts.php) | [Events Covered](about-events-
covered.php) | [Our Clients](about-our-clients.php) | [Other Services](about-
other-services.php) | [ASAP in the News](about-news.php) | [Site
Map](sitemap.php) | [Job Opportunities](jobs.php) | [Links](links.php)  
---  
  
ASAP Sports, Inc. | T: 1.212 385 0297

